! 20090915 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

The collection of ideas and the pool of material derived from them is rich, complex and confounding, due to the conflicting efforts made over the course of the project. The notes provide endless options, threads awaiting the choices that will determine how they can be woven together into a story. 

20091006 - As happens with the passage of time, the threads twist and tangle, touching in different ways producing different solutions. Here then is another sequence of events: 

17 

a girl and a boy grow up in the same frame of time, the latter a reincarnation of the former

the girl is haunted by the memory of the massacre and a demon within

the boy is haunted by the memory of being the girl

the girl is possessed bit by bit and in one such state bites the boy 
	or, bites some other male -- her best friend?
	through her possession, the girl's ability to change sex is established, and can thus be inherited by the boy as her reincarnation
	
20091009 - there remains here a conflict between an approach involving the looped overlap and a simple division where an impulse emerges to resort to a child conceived by a parent infected with familiarity. The option in which a man is bitten by a possessed woman and then raped by the demon when he turns female runs the risk of discharging or duplicating plot segments intended for the main character. The recent variation in which the boy is created from the girl through a combination of possession and eclipse solves a majority of plot requiements, but gives the girl too much precidence. The question comes down to what is most explicit to the character. As the child of a familiar who is born with the ability to change sexes, the crisis would follow division and climax in a choice, while the man who is her mother would be presented in contrast, pushing the boy in order to protect the girl. 

the boy is transformed into a girl

the girl helps the boy cope with being a girl

the tomboy takes the girl's place while she investigates her past

the demon takes on the boy's identity, growing stronger in its fight for possession 

the demon conqures the girl when she is mortally wounded

the girl encounters the dragon that is the demon's focus in the world within while eclipsed by the demon

the tomboy is confronted by the demon in the guise of the boy

the tomboy is raped and seems to slay the demon

the girl struggles to free the dragon's soul from the demon while it is weakened by the tomboy's retaliation

the tomboy remembers being the girl while under arrest for slaying "the boy" 

the dragon gains possession of the girl's body as a consequence of the girl taking possession of the demon

the tomboy, once again the girl, is freed from prison when the dragon takes on the boy's identity and appears alive before the court

the tomboy's claim that the boy had been possessed by a demon had led to a scheme to entrap the demon using the tomboy as bait

the dragon, as a soul in possession of the girl's body and the boy's form, is mistaken for a demon and banished into the rift

the girl, in an effort to save the dragon, ends up being pulled into the rift with him 

the girl and the dragon emerge from the rift twenty years in the past

the girl and the dragon create new lives for themselves as the mercenary adventurers Ash and Ember, the Dragon and the Phoenix 

17 - 19

20091007 - different ideas have been explored to establish the girl as her own mother thread, from the creation of the embryo from scratch to the various child of fusion threads. One of the threads involved a forbidden conception between members of rival houses or bloodlines, an incestuous conception and a conception by rape.  

the girl encounters her parents, discovering as they do that they are (ancestral enemies, brother and sister, or the like)

the girl begs the dragon to interceed when her mother discovers and attempts to abort her pregnancy

the dragon makes a deal with the girl's mother to "take away" her daughter if she would bear his son

the dragon transfers the embryo from mother to daughter and then sires the male reincarnation of the girl that would become the boy

the girl struggles to cope with the consequences of becoming her own mother, knowing the fate of the woman she had called mother

19.03

20

the girl and boy are born

27

the girl is orphaned in the massacre



..............................................................................................................................
20090914 - In previous attempts to capture the inspiration of this project, in spite of working out all the details, there has always been something that did not ring true. The evolution of ideas has provided other perspectives from which a new approach can be resolved. 

the girl is assaulted by the demon possessing a man she does not know is her father 
During the massacre, the girl is captured by her demon-possessed father and physically and psychically molested as it strives to harvest her soul. As her mind is penetrated, she senses the captive soul of her father through the mind of the demon and realizes that he is as much a victim as she is. 

the girl takes possession of the demon to free his soul
During the ordeal, she takes possession of the demon to free the soul of man attacking her. In her attempt to understand the demon, she discovers its true nature and takes possession of it through the simple act of imposing her own will on it to release its hold on her father's soul. During the moments while the demon was dominant, she responded instinctively to being held captive in the hands of a twisted version of her father, struggling to escape and biting him in the process. The bite infects them with a bond of familiarity. 

the girl connects to the mind of creation
Through her assimilation of the demon, the girl perceives the source and manner of its creation and following those threads she encounters the mind of creation, embraces it, and it possesses her in turn. For a moment, she is the Omni, but even as her soul embraces the mind of creation, and the mind of creation embraces her soul, the identity attributed to the mind of creation eclipses her own, imposing a masculine perspective upon her psyche and threatening to extinguish hers. 

the girl is eclipsed by the mind of creation
The girl's apotheosis comes about as a consequence of the demon's assault on her mind, provoking the seizure of her psychic potential and opening of her mind to the threshold in search of a way to escape her tormentor. In the process she discovers that the demon is a fallen angel of the mind of creation -- in essence the god. The demon confronting the girl is, to her naked psyche, a direct path to the god! She discovers that the god is apart from and yet a part of everyone; but in being part of everyone, the god is no one in particular. The mind that encompasses all souls did not have a soul of its own; the god is, in effect, a demon! 

the boy is created from the body and soul of the girl and the mind of creation
The identity that asserts itself in the girl's body accepted every aspect of her embodiment but one. By definition, the identity imposed upon the mind of creation was male. It takes little effort to modify the memories taken from the girl, who had been something of a tomboy, before adopting her personality as a boy. In a practical sense, the girl did it to herself in response to having her identity redefined by the experience. 

the man who was possessed by the demon that assaulted the girl adopted the boy and took him under his wing
It is possible that the man who adopted the boy had been the girl's biological father; the possability that he had not been identified or that the couple had been unable to acknowledge their relationship has previously been established. In the oldest version, the girl's mother was betrothed to a different man, and later versions she chose to become a courtesan to avoid that marriage, even though it prevented her from marrying the man she loved. His possession could have occurred during or leading up to the massacre. 

the girl dives through the mind of creation and then finds her way across the threshold
In spite of embracing the identity of God, part of her clung to her true identity, preserving her existence by using the vast intelligence she had embraced to recreate herself. The girl's psychic potential was enhanced profoundly as a result, though at first her use of it is unconscious. Her return to the world came in response to her efforts to wake up from the horrible nightmare she seemed trapped in. The possability that the girl's mother was turned into a vampire during the massacre remains a viable way for the girl to lose her mother and yet still have her as an influence in her life. 

the boy grows up with a dark secret, turning into a girl once a month
The creation of his manhood came with an inherent curse, based as it was on familiarity, normally used by a demon in animal form to gain a human form while turning the infected human into a were familiar. In his own mind, it is an embarrassing mark of divinity, but it is also a constant reminder of who he really was and a challenge to the identity he had assumed. Unfortunately, it is also a potential weakness his enemies could exploit. Among them, all of the fallen. Thus, when the moment of the mark's demise arrives, it is one of the fallen using the mark to mount its attack on the boy. Coming as it does, when the boy is struggling with the desire to be a girl, an unconscious desire to return to being the girl, the demon is able to take possession of the boy's body to escape the slaying of the mark. 

the gods
The girl is not the first to embrace the mind of creation, and like her, those who have found themselves on the threshold with the option of harnessing the potential they realized in the experience and manifesting themselves. Thus, there are those who were in a position to notice the girl's ascension, some of whom would seek to nurture the young goddess and some who would seek to exploit or even destroy her. By the same account, there would be those who would focus their attention on the boy, to see if he was the Omni.    

a religion under seige
It was a time when the followers of the goddess faced persecution from the church of the one god. The followers of the goddess had hope, fueled by rumors that an avatar of the goddess was among them. After ten years, the girl those rumors spoke of was about to discover what she was -- and she was not prepared to face it. 

the academy, the art and beginning of the initiates' companionship
As the girl was confronted with her destiny, she was dealing with a completely different, but equally challenging revelation. The girl had fallen in love with a boy at a school founded to study and control rifts. An unintentional consequence of the use of magic was that it could tear holes in the fabric of space and time. Within the rift, dreams and nightmares were reality. This dangerous phenomenon could be as small and subtle as a breeze -- and more devestating than the fiercest storm. 

the elementals, damned and divine
Angels fall and become demons, spirits that impose themselves on the souls they prey on. Most souls rebel against the identity forced upon them, so most demons are tormented souls, filled with pain and self-loathing, striking out at others like a wounded animal and driven in search of the soul that will bring them peace. 

a paladin of the goddess 
One demon found the peace of a soul's personifying embrace when a little girl sacrificed herself to save her father. Ten years later, the girl must confront the consequences of her actions -- as well as a host of entities with designs upon her soul. Once she begins confronting it, the girl would unravel the secrets of creation and face the prospect of becoming a god. It would only cost her identity. 

the guardian angel and the goddess
The demon within is a fallen angel of the mind of creation, and the source of the girl's connection to the absolute. Through it, the girl touched the mind of creation, what monotheism defined as the god. In her possession, the demon once more became an angel, and when the girl embraced it fully, she was a goddess. To allow the girl to grow up, the goddess restored the girl to the realm, remaining apart from her as her guardian angel. 

the god and the demon of creation
In a sense, the demon of the realm is within everyone, but the girl actually connects to it and it pursues the possibility that she is the soul it has been looking for. 

