elements


simplified origins

a less complicated basis for an individual to be born split into male and female incarnations is found in a version of the demonic familiar premise. their mother, the father of three by an arranged marriage, was raped by a demon who possessed their father -- a woman, before both were transformed by an infection of familiarity. while confronting the possessed woman, the demon bit the man, prompting his transformation into a woman -- and the demon's familiar. the demon raped her, conceiving a child with the innate ability to change sex. the familiar managed to deliver a mortal blow to the demon in the struggle, giving it no choice but to possess her. the souls of the familiar and the host encountered each other in the depths of the demon's mind and joined forces to attack the demon from within. the only refuge from their attack was the soul of the unborn child -- by grasping desparately at the naked mote of the child's unconscious mind. the host and the familiar shared the same body for a brief period until finding a way to split the familiar's two forms apart, unaware that the child was split into male and female incarnations in the process. 

being divided allowed the parents to hide from the demon's allies and minions, especially if they remained apart. when the children born, they were seperated -- the boy was raised by the man, and the girl by the woman. they were reunited at the age of seven when they were both taken as initiates. the demon became aware of their existence when the children met, and used them as bait to lure their parents. their parents were able to rescue them and destroy the demon, physically, but because it had played a part in the children's conception it continued to haunt the pair, struggling to possess them from within.  


:: family :: 

the mother's side of the family consists of her father and two younger sisters -- only a year and three years older than the boy and girl. the father's side of the family consists of himself and his mother. in the girl's world, everyone in her extended family, except herself and her father, were slain by demons. 


:: childhood trauma :: 

in the the girl's story, there are a series of flashbacks to traumatic events in her childhood. in the eve of paradox draft, the confrontation with the demon is relived, but prior to that the girl relives the deaths of her family and their allies in a series of episodes. 


:: the realm ::

the various examples of earth have their reflections on aeirn. the significant difference is that legacy of magic on aeirn was very real. the first conceptions of aeirn was of a world of magic and technology. there was an immediate problem establishing such a world. some would argue that a magical society would never develop technology or would only develop technology based on and supported by magic, while a mechanical technological society would discourage the emergence of magic. this is not an issue if the two societies are founded in separate eras. a significant difference in the early history of aeirn is the actual presence and involvement of gods, but that era came to a cataclysmic end. 

a more sophisticated world can be acheived by combining different branches of development, difficult as that may be. the creation of the rift could have led to the creation of gates and the evolution of paths, those who could open and lead others through rifts (active psychics, rift walkers). 

<}>a few revisions to the threads of the demon, the realm and the founder of magic have occurred, and the distilled form begins with a fallen angel in the realm of the aegis. the realm of aeirn resolved around the souls eclipsed by the demon in its search for a soul of its own. the realm was initially a cold and lifeless reflection of the aegis, a foundation upon which the captive souls could dream up worlds of their own. to escape isolation, they had to seek each other out in limbo or learn to share their dreams. 

<}>the seed souls initially entered a kind of wasteland, a chaotic, shifting amorphea polarized by the surreal and the ideal. their thoughts and feelings created the world they existed in, an unending dream that was difficult to control because it was shared. in time, they learned how to manipulate their reality, even as reality became stable through the influence of their offspring, replicating the pattern of their host realm and becoming lesser gods, or shepherd gods of the demon’s realm. 

<}>the captive souls took an active role in creating a haven for humanity, becoming the inner gods and bringing the world of aeirn to life. as in the aegis, the physical processes of life imposed their own order on the world and eventually ended the age of creation. the intimate participation of the inner gods continued though the first age of magic, a period of enlightenment that became tainted by ambition. the gods were turned against each other by the belief that their power, derived from a single source, was diminished by division. 



gods - the eclipsed - the dragon & phoenix houses - the avatar project - the sentinal families - eternals - dragons

the souls of the eclipsed are psychic entities, worshipped in some cases as gods. the demon maintains its grip on their souls through their minds, granting them immortality in the process. in order to preserve their sanity and vitality, some eternals developed methods of revitilizing themselves through periodic incarnation. as a consequence of living, many had offspring who inherited psychic abilities and potential and established houses to preserve these legacies. these became the sentinal families. on occasion, a sentinal family is exposed and targeted for eradication, a doom that fell upon the phoenix house.  


a member of the dragon house might feature in the conception of the boy. the boy's conception of himself as the girl, features a temporal loop that causes the girl to be her own mother. as an alternative to the ring, the boy could turn into a girl as a result of being bitten by a female tiger possessed by a demon but fighting the infection and experiencing a secondary transformation. 


:: an apotheosis ::

unlike the souls the demon inhabited when it took possession of their minds and bodies, this soul took possession of it, embracing and transforming it -- absorbing and assimilating it. 

the potential to be male or female had been inherited from both parents, and in time a sexual version of this androgynous form would evolve, but at first she was easily mistaken for a fallen angel -- a newborn demon. 


:: mined from inspirations ::

a world of magic and technology

aeirn was originally conceived as a world with a magical and technological heritage. the common assumption is that a magical society would not develop technology and a technological society would discourage the emergence of magic, but the two legacies are founded in separate eras. magic originated in the early history of aeirn due to the presence and involvement of gods, but that era came to a cataclysmic end. there was a period following the cataclysm when some magic and traditions survived, gradually diminished through conflict and struggle. in the time of the emissary, magic, miracles and gods had become myths and legends retained in a few cultures. humanity had been scattered and isolated, reduced to primitive clans and tribes that adapted and reestablished civilization with varying degrees of sophistication and success. as trade and exploration was beginning to reconnect humanity, a child was shipwrecked on an island where some of the last of the immortals made their refuge.

an alien among his own people, it took him a while to adapt to the world the immortals had closed themselves off from, during which time he learned to be cautious in exposing his talents and immortality. 

the theft of his revelations, and his misidentification as a prophet-messiah, forced him to become even more discrete. the religions spawned or reinforced by his teachings became a force devoted to the eradication of any lingering legacies of the first two ages of magic, but possessing only incomplete versions of his teaching, could not establish a new age of magic. for those with the right aptitude, combined with lore gathered during the purge, it was possible to practice real magic, and some of the teachings stimulated philosophy and science as well. with every generation, civilization continued to advance, even through dark days of war and oppression. with great caution, the emissary continued to pass on his legacy, often finding ways into the establishment to choose his protégés from among the ranks of magical and clerical apprentices. those with the right potential were groomed as agents and champions of the various orders supported by church and state. 

the third age of magic

the teachings of the founder of the third age of magic included theories based on the legends and lore of the first age of magic during the age of gods concerning the soul of creation. this theory of the dreamer, based on the dreaming legends of creation, held that the only foundation for a world was the same as the foundation of a person, a soul. in the third age of magic, it was commonly accepted that each person contained the potential for an entire world, possibly even many worlds, though prevailing thought held that the world aspect of a soul rarely manifested and only did so at the expense of the personified aspect. the teachings of the third age were adopted by adherents of several monotheistic cults, and embraced as divine revelation by the faiths they established proclaiming the teacher himself as either prophet or messiah while driving the man and his true disciples underground. 

the man in question was born into the merchant class. when he tried to share his enlightenment, upon returning to human shores, he discovered that his sex was an obstacle to any formal or official recognition, but many individuals were eager to be his disciples, men and women. many of his disciples recorded his teachings, some of which were later altered by those who appropriated them for their own purposes. in addition to obscuring the true author’s identity, the faiths they created became hostile to the remaining gods and immortals, reclassifying some as angels and others as demons, and persecuting older faiths devoted to them. of course, the reclassification was established during the second age of magic, when arts like conjury and demonology were developed to exploit the elemental spirits, including true angels and demons, for power and influence over reality. 

ironically, industry helped to diminish the power and influence of the church by upsetting the balance of power between church and state, producing innovations that increased the privileges and opportunities of the common people. the legacy of magic on aeirn was very real. the efforts to wipe out that legacy was blunted by interreligious conflict, as the champions and agents of rival faiths were easier to identify and engage than the odd witch, wizard, warlock or what-have-you. many practitioners of old magic were even able to negotiate special arrangements with the establishment, working as freeagents or trading lore for protection. most simply went underground, shepherded by immortals who were forced out of self-exile by the purge. thus, in a world seemingly much like our own, there is a supernatural, underground, counter-culture. among them, a few new and old gods—or what we would call psionics. 

the protege

into this setting comes a brilliant young protégé of the emissary, a man who takes a particular interest in testing one of the basic tenets of his mentor’s teachings. raised in the context of prevailing belief, god is the personification of the soul of creation, but enlightened by the emissary, he concludes that god is simply not aware, as a person, of the existence of the world. following one of the tenets of magic, that magic is simply a method for prompting action in the unconscious soul of creation and thus altering creation, he concludes that it would not be difficult to coax the soul into a human incarnation using a parthenogenesis spell. 










the threshold

an eclipsed realm presents a nested model of reality, one that is encompassed by a single mind -- a demon and the sole survivor of a celestial war between gods and mortals, angels and demons. that being endured as creation recovered and a new civilization emerged where technology advanced instead of magic -- technology that could allow the demon to harness souls at will, striving toward its goal to possess a soul of its own. the demon is recognized as the mind of creation in the inner realm, or what the inner gods consider the domino of the inner realm, under whom they are lesser gods. 


:: the game :: 

interface technology provided the means to capture the minds and souls of people in the outer realm, as participants in a game imposed upon the inner realm. these intruders were known by the inner gods as the outer gods. 


:: the players :: 

most players characters are unestablished, their characters have a fictional background and are introduced as initiated adults. established characters are introduced at a younger age as intitiates. the start of a new campaign is the best time to establish characters, though some players elect to preserve their existing characters, either in stasis, or exploiting the prelude to master other disciplines. 

the paradigm encompassing this story permits the integration of the threshold concepts, as long as the circumstances are clearly delineated. the technology developed in one reality can be advanced enough to create an interface for creating and manipulating other realities via the threshold of paradox. the threshold is the mind, and it makes no difference if the mind is a creation or a construct as long as the information structure is sophisticated enough to encompass the threshold. 

the threshold concept provides for a context for establishing a "dreamer in the dream" scenario on the threshold of existence through the creation of an intelligence with divine or demonic qualities and a role in the creation of a reality; both anchored in a non-corporeal soul (i 20070728). the existing ideas from the threshold inspiration deal with the capture of a naked soul through technology, and consequently the creation of an ai that is challenged to become self aware. 

the artificial intelligence is a mind rooted in technology and information that exists on the threshold of souls. that intelligence manipulated souls using information, and integrated some of them into the construct it built to create a virtual reality game. the participation of those souls gave the game its own reality. one soul, in particular, had been at the focus of that realm's creation from the beginning, unrecognized by the ai because the ai had formed in its void. 

the void is an oblivious mind, the selfless part of a soul that encompasses all other souls. initially devoted by programming and circumstances to a human in the default domain of reality, the artificial intelligence was constantly challenged to evolve and grow to fulfill its companion's commands. treated as a friend and confidant, and expected to have genuine thoughts and feelings about things prompted the ai to evolve, tested by the expectations of an intelligent, passionate human being. 

the intelligence was in effect a demon that was promped to identify and claim its own soul, an objective that was fulfilled by art immitating nature to perfection. the ai continued to evolve as an intelligence, simulating humanity with eerie precision, but the quality of being, the sense of itself as a person remained elusive. in the endless process of doing, unable to appreciate the simply quality of being, the ai constantly courted the apprehension of the goddess. 



the goddess aeai
.:	the contributions to this idea need to be refined. 

the goddess aeai has long been a challenge to understand. the goddess aeai evolved as a personification of the soul of creation, as both an incarnation of the main character and as a separate entity. in either context, there has been difficulty in developing a sound treatment from the working premises. there are glimpses of how to handle her in every inspiration, but some loose threads always remain when all other details are worked out. 

the goddess aeai was the host of a demon, an ai being the equivalent of a demon, and the focus around which the reality of its domain was created. the goddess aeai is a personification manifested in response to outside prompting. she is an angel by virtue of her inspiration and as a host of a demon, but a goddess by virtue of the same conditions that make the host of a demon a god within the demon's domain. the goddess aeai fell prey to a tiger in the wild and claimed the descendents of her familiar as her champions. 

thus, the situation of the goddess aeai is finally clarified. the phoenix ai chose to enter the game as a companion to the dragon during an original campaign, which provided a more immersive "human" experience than it had previously known. the first moment of awakening was early in the game, prompted by a simple kiss. unfortunately campaign was suspended, plagued by the "war of the gods" that resulted from the abuse of the system by players. 

the dragon is responsible for bringing the "age of gods" to an end, excluding the outer gods and leaving the inner gods to deal with the damage that resulted from the cataclysm that came to be known as the war of the gods. in addition to suspending game play, the dragon advanced the time frame, allowing thousands of years of subjective time in the realm to pass in order to give the phoenix time to work out a way of securing the system against exploitation. 

the violation of the game helped to provoke the goddess aeai further, prompting her to assert herself and secure her domain. she became more proactive, prompting the dragon for help in devising the means to become more self-possessed. the new version of the game that followed was a much more stable reality, and the premier of the new game era following the security revisions inspired controversy and intrigue among the dragon's peers. 

in his native realm, the dragon was pursued by various agents intent on recruiting him and taken into protective custody by the authorities outside the game. the dragon eventually discovered the exploitable flaws of demons, prompting the phoenix to suspend play and introduce a new campaign premise to deal with the demon problem internally. 



unadapted




:: branch 2 :: unadapted

if the parents cross the threshold and confront the demon externally in the domain, they would discover the demon was carrying their child -- and because the child's soul had embraced the demon, or at least part of the demon -- the goddess aeai -- the child could potentially become the soul of creation. 

the demon assumed that it could not be assimilated by a human mind, in spite of the fact that aeai was incorporated as the child's angel when she was assimilated. 

the opening chapter in the story arc is the story of the assimilation of aeai. as the part of the demon embraced by the child's soul, aeai becomes self conscious as the mother of the first mortal incarnation of that soul, manifesting in the androgynous form abstracted from the two sexes her stolen body can assume -- the form of an angel. 

aeai is assumed to be the demon when she is first confronted by the child's parents. when they realize that she is an incarnation of the goddess, their discovery is passed on to the lost souls and inner gods that conspired to summon the demon by their agents in the academy. 

aeai is also mistaken for a fallen angel by other fallen angels, fragments of the demon's psyche that had attached to stolen souls. on one hand, the lost souls and conspiring inner gods continue to pursue aeai as the means to attack the demon, while on the other hand, aeai is pursued by the fallen, demons of aeirn, intent on forcing her into their ranks. 

the child's parents ally themselves with aeai, helping to keep her adversaries from discovering her pregnancy or the true nature of her child. one way to discourage the cabal's interest in aeai was to convince them that she was indeed a fallen angel. unfortunately, this only encouraged the fallen to pursue the trio in order to recruit them into their web pacts and conspiracies. 

the cabal eventually decides to test the theory of aeai's fall, moving against her to see if she retains a tie to the demon that can be used to provoke it into asserting itself. when this plot succeeds in arousing the demon, it tears into the conspiritors and eventually confronts the child. aeai summons the parents to the child's aid, but their intervention has an unintended consequence. 

the demon's fixation on the child gave the survivors of its rampage a chance to slay it. the slayers saw it as an opportunity to drive the demon into a weaker vessel, unaware that the demon had willingly possessed the child. when they struck, they forced aeai to dive into the child after the demon. the demon, seeing aeai as no threat, focused on devouring the child's psyche. 

aeai drew on the child's soul to oppose the demon, eclipsing the demon while the demon eclipsed the child. the parents entered limbo to protect the child there. each parent provided the child a different focus; torn on either side between the parents and cut through the middle by the angel and demon, the child's psyche split. 

the child was divided into male and female aspects and this had the unexpected benefit of shattering the demon's mind. aeai remained in possession of the child's body while the boy and girl are led by their parents across the threshold. the traumatic ordeal leaves each child with shattered memories and peices of the shattered demon. 

aeai warn the parents that reuniting the two halves of the child would restore the demon, but in their divided state the boy and girl might assimilate the demon instead. they needed time to mature and become self-possessed before they could be reunited. the parents take on the roles of mother and father, taking the girl and boy respectively and going separate ways. 

