options

events blocked out tentatively span a two year period from the end of summer in the initiates' fifteenth year to the end of summer in their seventeenth year. 

general blocking for several books have been expanded. 

the option for a third book already presents itself. the demon makes off with the "tomgirl's" body, assuming the boy's identity and hooking up with the boy's mentor and father. the girl emerges unscathed from her exorcism and follows. however, the demon had convinced the boy's father that it was the fusion of the boy and girl, essentially taking her place as well as the boy's. when she arrived, the demon answered her accusations with the same. by the time the girl had established her identity, the demon's reinforcements from the exile arrived. they had all been caught in a trap. the only bright side was that the island they were vacationing on was inhabited by a dragon, and dragons tended to slaughter demons on sight. the girl manages to eclipse the demon in a battle for her soul, and resurrects the soul of the adventurer in the boy's body. 

the next book deals with trials. the adventurer assumes the boy's identity and obligations, including the engagement to the girl. both intent on completing their companionships at the academy, they conspire to postpone their union indefinately.  

variant

the girl could simply decide to break in and trade places with the tomboy, delivering the ring to restore her to normal. alternatively, she could have been tempted to use the ring earlier and been more practical about breaking the curse. thus, she would come in disguised as the boy, switch back, then give the ring to the tomboy. 


stray thoughts

what's on your mind?
I had a thought... a question of fate and free will... the implications of choice... about the nature of reality... different paths... probability... different realities...

..................................................................................................................................

20100211 - <the mark, a host soul> an option worth exploring would be to counter the mark's death at the hands of the demon with his resurrection in the boy's form when the girl finally catches up to the demon. in essence, the demon uses the mark's soul to gain the leverage needed to eclipse the union of the boy and girl and steal one of their bodies. in turn, the girl leaves the mark in possession of that body when she takes possession of the demon. since the mark is a host soul, the girl still has to contend with the focus later on. 

20100211 - <the focus, the dragon within> this idea has been evolving and gaining strength. the demon's first conquest was a dragon. once the girl took possession of the demon, she became the target of it's attempts to escape by subjecting her to the ordeal of a dragon dream from which she awakens as a phoenix. the psychic initiation shows her how to manifest a new body, allowing her to sacrifice her second body to the dragon. 

20091009 - <the were-woman> the child of demon-familiar conception option emerges from a conflict between an approach involving the looped overlap and a simple division. as the child of a familiar who is born with the ability to change sexes, the crisis would arise from the character's division and climax in a choice, while the ordeal of the man who is her mother would be presented in contrast, motivating him to push the boy in order to protect the girl. 

20100210 - <the were-woman legacy> the ordeal of the man turned familiar is not a one-night affair. there is an arc of several days to several months in which he succumbs to his infection, turns female, is pursued by the demon, is subjected to rape and torture, is impregnated, is finally able to slay the demon, unwittingly driving it to possess the child. during that time, she inflicts her curse upon a man she is forced to fight. this person carries the full weight of the were-woman curse, passing it on to those foolish enough to provoke her or unfortunate enough to be sired by him. one such child becomes the protagonist's protege. 

20100215 - <the were-woman, divided> for the same reason the woman was identified as the girl's father, the man is identified as the girl's mother, with a footnote that he donated his female incarnation to resurrect the girl's father. Ironically, this resurrection makes the woman his "child" with the man identified as her sole parent. to suppress this, the woman was adopted by the man's aunt, so the official records identify her as his cousin instead.  

eclipsed - applicable to the were-girl splinter thread

20100210 - <orphan option, the vampire mother> the option of leaving the girl an orphan in the wake of the massacre, without completely ending the mother's influence is still possible if she is turned into a vampire. the mother's protege would have completed her inititaion by this point, becoming the girl's mentor. the girl's grandmother would become her legal guardian and have reason to be estranged from her daughter and object to her involvement in the girl's life. this can also establish the girl's ties to the underworld through her mother. 

20100211 - <orphan option, the were mother> a minor adjustment with a significant impact, the girl's mother was resurrected through the sacrifice of her "father's" female aspect. the division of the parents has the same effect as the division of the child; the division exploited the metamorphic and regenerative powers of a familiar to split their aspects into separate bodies, all but completely expending those powers. they were left with a partial immunity to vampirism and morphism, as either infection would trigger the emergence of their own "purified" regenerative powers. 

20100211 - <orphan option, the were-vampire mother> the nature of the girl's mother challenges the option of turning her into a vampire, presenting the possability of turning her into a were-vampire instead. this would come about as a result of a vampire turning reactivating the mother's metamorphic potential prior to stimulating her regenerative powers. in order for her to discover she was not a typical vampire, she would have to risk exposure to sunlight to stimulate her transformation back to her human aspect, so it is reasonable for years to pass before her hybrid nature is revealed. 



* <transferred and adapted 20100812> 20100211 - <mating season> an initiate's training includes intimacy, explored as an extension of athletics, specifically gymnastics and dance. this comprehensive form of sex education is considered essential for healthy development, involving practice as well as theory. thus, initiates in their ninth year (all at least fifteen years of age) pair up, giving rise to the euphemism "mating season".  

* <transferred and adapted 20100812> 20081210 - <the mark> the preface to the accidental assassin is expanded to integrate with the unwanted admirer of the avatars thread. the mark is introduced before the boy is turned into the girl's twin. he has a history of rivalry with the boy that becomes focused on the girl when he takes an interest in her based partially on her knowledge of the ruins of the underworld. 

* <transferred and adapted 20100812> 20090100 - <the mark, a favor> the tomboy is asked to help a boy catch another girl he is obsessed with, unwittingly setting the girl up to be mistaken for an assassin when the tomboy disengages and becomes intimately associated with the mark. the mark is an adventurer and son of a local lord who pursues the girl, and thus the tomboy, after learning of the girl's childhood misadventure in the ruins and the underworld. <note: the adventurer is typically presented as the boy's rival, and sometimes as the player in the threshold threads.> 

* <transferred and adapted 20100812> 20100211 - <orphan option, the girl's quest> the girl's investigation could begin or be presented as an investigation into her mother's death, which took place at the academy. this investigation would lead to a reunion with her mother that introduces her to the underworld. it would also raise new questions for the girl to investigate, leading her into conflict with the underworld's immortals, the cabal and the adversary. 

* <transferred and adapted 20100812> during the ninth year of initiation, when the fifteen year old initiates are paired up to master the art of dancing - among other things -- the intimacy growing between the girl and the boy strengthen's the demon's hold on the girl, stirring up traumatic nightmares and crippling flashbacks as the demon struggles to assert itself. this marks the beginning of the girl's investigation of the massacre. her search leads the girl and her friends into the underworld and dangerous association with its criminal and immortal elements. the girl begins to lose time during her forrays into and under the streets of avon, unaware of the demon surfacing to strike down threats drawn to her in response to its presence. when the girl and boy finally have sex, the demon rouses its other half within the boy. soon after, the immortals subject the girl to a test only a were or a vampire could survive. impossibly, she survives it. 

* <transferred and adapted 20100812> during the boy's ordeal as a girl, he becomes caught up in an affair with his former rival. worse, is unwittingly involved in a plot to assassinate his rival - believed by many to be the assassin working on taking him out. in truth, he is just covering for the girl, still engaged in her pursuit of answers, while working up the nerve to do what he must to regain his manhood. a friend confronts him with the fact that being born and raised a boy is no obstacle to being a girl. unfortunately, the demon within him has plans of its own. the demon's actions make the tomboy into an accidental assassin. 







