conceptual conflicts


The origin of complementary incarnations of a resurrected soul of creation could be completely revisited. 

The idea of the soul of creation, the first soul claimed and eclipsed by a demon, as the focus lends itself to all versions of an attempt to conceive an incarnation of the soul of creation. The demon's angelic origin and fall, and the conception and birth of the original incarnation of the focus in another realm, can all be drawn from existing impulses. The opening act would be set in the avon realm. The second act would be the age of gods on aeirn, climaxing in the destruction of the focus. 


The resurrection of the soul of creation begins with the protege of the prophet attempting to test the existence of the soul of creation. 


The origin of male and female incarnations of the protagonist in different splinters of reality, by normal means of conception, solves only a few problems. 

The origin of the protagonist as a child of fusion presents several challenges but provides an ideal foundation for critical threads. 

The only way the parents can be in a position to interact with the child of fusion is if the demon involved is the demon of the realm. The demon's attention has to be drawn inward and focused on the mother. The least complicated way would be for her to perform -- or be used in -- a ritual designed to make contact with it. Or she could be a pawn in a plot designed to make it possible to strike at the demon directly in an attempt to claim dominion. 

A possible revision starts with the idea that the mother was pregnant when the demon of the realm possessed her. When her body shifted to male form -- acquired when the father was bitten by the demon -- the embryo acted as a catalyst, changing the metamorphosis into a manifestation of its fully-mature form. To escape from being assimilated by the child's soul, the demon was forced to take possession of the father's body. 

As a consequence of this revision, the mother and father are displaced by the demon in succession, emerging within the realm as gods. The mother's body was consumed in the child's manifestation and the demon remains in possession of the father's body. The parents are in a position to become involved in the affairs of the inner gods. The demon takes an interest in the child, initially because she is technically its familiar. 

This origin introduces the main character fully grown and in possession of a body created by consuming her mother's body, incorporating her procedural and kinesthetic memory, along with fragments of biographical memory. She rose from the destruction of her mother's body in a pool of blood after the demon fled in her father's transformed body. Her androgynous form causes her to be identified by some as an angel -- possibly a fallen angel. 


The origin of branched incarnations of the protagonist in different splinters by means of self-conception introduces a few minor twists. 

In this option, both versions of the protagonist are born with the potential to change sex -- but each is predisposed to his or her birth form. Both incarnations inherit the regenerative powers of a familiar. Because the difference between their forms is minor, they could shift from infancy. Like any were, they were forced to change once a lunar cycle -- although this compulsion could be ignored if they shifted deliberately and more frequently. 

In one splinter, the child of fusion conceived of herself as a female and the new incarnation of herself was born a girl. She found the occasional addition to her body strange but thought little of it until she discovered she was turning into a boy. She could not pass as a boy, however, and under the torment of other boys she mentally traded places with her counterpart, forming the connection that would eventually lead her across the rift.

In one splinter, the child of fusion conceived of himself as a male and the new incarnation of himself was born a boy. He was killed before the boy was born -- to a courtesan. He found the occassional disappearance of his manhood curious and disturbing, until he realized he was changing into a girl. Like the girl, he blocked this from his memory once the connection between them was forged. In their own minds, they lived in the same reality.

The boy and the girl are established in separate houses within the same general neighborhood. They traded places briefly, once a month -- often times in the dead of night, when they could dismiss their experiences as dreams. In many ways, they were each other's invisible friend. Their belief in each other was vindicated once the girl crossed over, and once their psychic communion was discovered, it marked them as psychics. 

The girl escaped the destruction of the academy and her family by crossing the rift. As inner gods, her true parents felt the loss of their splinter-selves, along with the girl's arrival in their splinter of reality. The parents adopted her; the father claiming her as an illegitimate, orphaned daughter. The girl's memory of the traumatic event was suppressed, and the mother raised her as the daughter she had thought lost in the ordeal of her eclipse. 

This approach obscures the true identity of the boy and his relationship to the girl. By the time she enters his world, they have both learned to keep the ability to change sex a secret. The boy's surrogate mother is the most likely to propose a union with the girl, which is complicated by the discovery of his ability. Another complication is the relationship the girl has with another boy her grandmother has proposed a union with. 


The splintered realms premise does not have to be used to divide the incarnations resulting from a child of fusion. 

Once the child of fusion is established as an option, there is little reason not to use the divided inception originally proposed. The child of fusion thread originally featured a liaison with a woman in which the inception of a male offshoot triggers a complementary inception of a female offshoot. A courtesan is the boy's surrogate mother, and the child of fusion is the girl's mother. This obscures their relationship enough to support their eventual engagement. 

By keeping them in the same scope of reality, fewer conflicts are created. After her mother is slain, the girl is claimed by her true father and taken on as the protege of her true mother. The boy became her father's protege; no one was aware that he was the man's son or the girl's counterpart. The keep their transformations a secret; as children the change is subtle enough for clothing to conceal, even from friends and family. 

Hiding their transformations becomes more difficult as puberty hits, but they have more experience with managing them. Familiar with their own alternate forms, they could not help but be fascinated with each other once they met, upon arriving at the academy. The question is, does that happen when they are seven or when they are seventeen? Growing up knowing about each other, they could easily trade places when their bodies changed. 


The option exists for the demon of the realm to form an alliance with the parents and the child of fusion. 

The objective of the plot to summon the demon of the realm was to conquer it and claim its dominion. Once in possession of a body within the domain, the demon was vulnerable to attack by those who conspired to bring it down. Once the dangers became clear to the child and parents, a more intimate relationship might evolve. The demon could be the boy's surrogate mother, posing as the mother's twin, while in male form the demon would be her other lover. 

The demon is a more likely lover for the child of fusion, even if the child had to be seduced. Following her death, the demon would turn to the parents, becoming involved in a triangle relationship. The alliance itself provides an incentive for the attack the girl survived. The plan would naturally involve setting demons on the allies so the demon could be attacked without their interference, and might have been targeted them while they were in different locations. 

The mother's involvement in the plot to summon the demon could be based on a variation of the premise of the touched. She has been envisioned as something of a witch, a natural psychic -- in the oldest inspiration, called an aeirnthane. The architect of the trap was either a rogue master at the academy, or an adversary who captured the mother to key the trap. A number of threads could be adapted to resolve this point.  


The splintered realms premise automatically implies a version of reality exists where the child was born as she was originally conceived. 

If nature had run its course without involving the demon of the realm, the child would have been born a girl. In the world of the child of fusion, the X chromosome she inherited from her mother was imprinted with the capacity to morph into a Y chromosome. Due to an accident when her mother was magically transformed into a tiger, all versions of the child inherited a latent ability to turn into a tiger. In one splinter, the mother fought a were-tiger in tiger form and ended up with a more controllable version of the were-tiger curse. 


The vampire and were themes parallel the gods and demons themes and should be adapted to eliminate conflicts. 


applicable concepts

20100211 - <dragons> a dragon is similar in many ways to a demon, a dream - some would say nightmare - that takes on a life of its own. however, a dragon is born in the unconscious mind of a soul, a manifestation of untapped power and potential that is drawn to the spark of consciousness in a rather predatory way. 

20100209 - <avatar option> the nature of angels, demons and gods has been fairly well explored, but the implications of the avatar option have been hidden within them. the focus of an angel is the soul of its god, the focus of a demon is the soul of its first conquest; neither truly has a soul of its own. a soul that takes on the spirit of an angel or demon by choice is an avatar and would remain under the aegis of the spirit and its source. 

20100209 - <avatar option, apotheosis> to truly master a demon, a soul would have to become the demon's focus in addition to embracing it. the living soul of a demon's host is a minor avatar, while a living soul of a demon's focus is a major avatar. a soul unwillingly subordinate to a foreign spirit is a demonic avatar while a soul willingly subordinate to a foreign spirit is an angelic avatar. a soul superordinate to a foreign spirit is an avatar of the god that is the spirit's source. a true god is the source of its own inspiration, which is to say that it cultivates the potential of its own spirit. 

20081214 - <powers, stasis> stasis is a branch of metamorphic and regenerative ability. where polymorphs have greater powers of regeneration, the undead have greater powers of stasis. technically, vampires and weres are both undead, in the sense that they are spirits tied to the material plane. their bodies are entirely subject to spiritual manipulation. their general powers are similar, metamorphic regeneration. vampires exist closer to the static end of the spectrum, while weres are found on the more dynamic end. 



