
Born and raised as a boy, Morgan felt so strongly that he was a girl inside he used his time at the Academy to learn how to use magic to become female. 

Capturing the driving inspiration: Morgan did more than just become a girl, "she" completely reinvented herself. The idea that he had been born wrong in one detail, sex, prompted him to explore all the details of his embodiment and create a face and form based upon his best understanding of who he really was. Through this she became an embodiment of the Art, possessing a deep insight into the true nature of magic.

Incorporating old themes: Morgan's transformation was just the first hurdle she would face. Many people could not understand what she did and refused to accept her transformation. Morgan also had little practical experience being a girl; she had a whole lifetime of experiences to make up for. Even more concerning, she would have to fight for the independence she could have taken for granted as a man. Morgan went with her mother to be trained and established as a girl by her grandmother. Morgan's grandmother was a retired courtesan who trained girls to be courtesans--and she saw in Morgan a potential heir. Her training under her grandmother introduced her to the underworld in the role of messenger in matters concerning the preparation of female assassins who were also trained as courtesans.  

The Accidental Assasin Thread can be supported: Morgan's closest friends came to terms with her transformation. One of the boys asked her to pose as his girlfriend to help him catch the girl he wanted. This favor resulted in her gaining the attention of a boy who did not know about her past and he became determined to win her. This also resulted in her becoming involved with the assassin hired to kill him. Morgan was mistaken for one of the courtesan-assassins. 

The Wish Thread can be integrated in at least two different ways. The original concept featured a wish made by the character's father; unaware that he had a daughter he wishes he'd had a son and the world is revised so that the girl was born a boy. One variation would feature a wish made by the character as a boy; he wishes he'd been born a girl. Another variation would feature a wish made by the character as a girl; unaware that the man she wants is her father, she wishes he'd had a son.   