An idea that has lingered on the side is to use a wish as the means to establish the division of the main character into male and female incarnations. The circumstances of the wish have been difficult to pin down, but the wish itself is simple. Originally, the idea was that the girl's father, unaware he was a father, wishes he had a son. The wish is maliciously misinterpreted and history revised to make his daughter his son instead. Because he made the wish, the man can remember the way things were originally. A better variation on the wish might be for the girl, not knowing the man is her father, to wish he had a son -- meaning a boy like him her own age who she could be with. Her transformation would be a startling way to discover she was his daughter, and as the person who made the wish she would remember her old life.  



a wish - revisited and revised


a boy, obsessed with the girl of his dreams, wishes to meet her for real, born and living in the world he lives in
a demon grants the wish, without disclosing that she was actually the girl he dreamed of being
as the wish-maker, he is unaffected when the wish changes reality around him, revising the past to create a female version of him while preserving the male version
as a result, the girl was born, became possessed by a demon at a young age, bit a man and gained a metamorphic sex-shifting ability by infecting him with demonic familiarity, and her possession was broken by dividing her into male and female incarnations
the man bitten by the girl, the boy's mentor, was also divided--his female half becoming the girl's mentor

thus

the singular duality threads are supported
the demon within threads are supported
the avatars threads are supported


































































































at the age of seven
a girl trapped in a boy's body -- origin of a demon within
a girl is orphaned in the past -- origin of a goddess, a consequence of laying a demon to rest

his experiences forced him to grasp the secrets of his psyche
her experiences forced her to grasp the power of her psyche

at the age of seventeen
a boy is confronted by his personal demon -- confronting the girl of his dreams
a girl is confronted by her personal demon -- confronting the nightmares of her childhood

she is the mechanism of his transformation
a tomboy, caught between a vampire and a were, becomes a phoenix -- a were vampire tormented by hunger and thirst

nineteen and twenty
a phoenix reduced to an ember to purge herself of a demon from without
a girl becomes her own mother

...




As presented above, virtually all of the impulses of the story are satisfied. The way it is presented, it could be set on Earth or Aeirn and there is an option for doing both, with Aeirn as the world within. That is but a side issue, next to the paradoxes inherent in the main impulses. The approach outlined makes the girl into the mechanism of the boy's transformation by herself, as a consequence of evolution in the boy's life and in her own. His ordeal stimulates the potential that is manifested in her. In one sense, her initial incarnation as a boy gave rise to a demon.  



an option derived from ideas introduced in the awakening (a psionics campaign) incorporating the distilled omniversal model of psychic evolution and point paradox (the soul-mind conflict); the story begins with an eternal exiled on earth. 
















































































a girl possessed by a demon bites a boy
a boy bitten by a demon turns into a girl - familiarity, the demon also gains a male form
a boy turned girl is confronted by the demon, now in male form, and raped
a child is conceived, inheriting her mother's familiarity and born with the ability to turn into a boy

first option
the soul of the possessed girl is recovered by the boy turned girl
the forms of the boy are split to give the girl a new body
the child is split, in vivo, into male and female incarnations, born as a boy and a girl

consequence of the first option
division suspends the metamorphic ability, leaving only the regenerative and rejuvenating properties
exposure to the demon's psychic assault enabled the boy to save the girl's soul, deprived the demon of its host soul and killed its host body

second option
the demon tracks the boy down to claim him, or her, as its familiar
the demon encounters child and rapes her mind
the child senses the soul of the girl during the psychic assault 
the soul of the possessed girl is released by the child 
a struggle for dominance occurs after the child embraces the demon that results in her division into male and female incarnations

other options
a boy is drawn to a girl who is everything he secretly longed to be
a demon has possessed the girl and attacks the boy who pursues her
the boy, bitten by the girl, turns into her twin
the boy turned girl is hunted down and raped, physically and psychically, by the demon in the boy's form
in the struggle, the boy frees the girl's soul by eclipsing and embracing the demon
the pair turn to each other to cope with the consequences of their ordeal
including...
...




























Overview : The Threshold 

The Eve of Paradox was originally conceived as the first story in this series. However, there is a story that needs to be told about the origins and ordeal faced by the main character that makes use of inspirations and threads under much longer consideration and development. 

This is the story of a person who was divided into male and female incarnations, and the choice those incarnations faced when they were confronted by the cause of their division. 



Integration : The Wandering Paths

The existing work on The Eve of Paradox and chapters that can be easily absorbed into the Threshold series provide a framework that can make use of most of the ideas explored in previous projects. No approach can make use of all the solutions proposed to this point, however. The premise of the Threshold is that individuals in a world of technology have been allowed into a of magic world within a demon that is using the neural interface technology of the net to screen souls. The threshold of the innerworld is a twelve-dimensional spatial-temporal-mental construct, sufficient to encompass the paradoxes of the main character's life.  

Elements of the Accidental Assassin can be combined with the Demon Within and Slain Lover threads to resolve the story of the girl's fusion with the boy. In the first thread, the girl is caught up in a plot to assassinate an adventurer designed to prevent him from leading an expedition into the underworld. Her mother became part of the underworld when she was turned into a vampire during the bloody raid that left the girl an orphan. 

On the night of the raid, the girl took possession of a demon assassin to free her mother's soul, becoming the host of an angel and an avatar of the goddess, allowing her to resurrect her mother as a vampire. On that same night, in a splinter of reality where the girl had been born a boy, his struggle with the demon opened a rift that allowed him to escape into her realm. During that struggle, the boy was bitten by his possessed mother and infected with familiarity. 

The girl had been taken by her mother to the temple of the goddess, while the boy was found and delivered to the girl's father by her parent's mentor -- the only person who knew her father's identity. The mentor had examined the boy and discovered his identity, origins and infection before turning him over to this world's version of his father. He could not cure the boy's infection, but he was able to slow it down and keep it from fully manifesting until ten years later. 

The demon assassin was supposed to take possession of the girl's mother, to use her to get close to its creator, the goddess, and destroy her. In one sense, it was a coup attempt by other inner gods involved in the purge, an attempt to conquer the demon of the realm through an attack on the soul of creation. As a consequence of assimilating the demon assassin, the girl became a potential threat to the demon of the realm. The goddess put the angel in stasis to allow the girl to grow and mature normally.   

The girl's mother -- formerly a paladin of the goddess -- reestablished herself in the underworld as a courtesan, a relatively legitimate life for a vampire, and remained a significant part of her daughter's life, in spite of being dead. The temple sponsored the girl's initiation at the academy, to follow in her mother's footsteps and become a paladin of the goddess. Officially, the girl was a ward of the temple, under the guardianship of a knight of the goddess with two other orphaned girls.

The girl's "sisters" were a year and three years older; the younger of the two a potential oracle and the elder well on the way to becoming a priestess. Their guardian was a father figure for all three girls, and the guardian of the shrine where they all lived. He had also been a friend, and some believed a former lover, of the girl's mother. This rumor caused some speculation, but when the girl asked, he confessed to being in love with her mother -- and loving the girl like a daughter -- but he was not her father. 




Points of Consideration

The questions and conflicts concerning the circumstances of the character's childhood each need to be addressed and resolved in order to determine what events are possible or probable. 

One of the original threads features a young woman who was possessed by a demon, so it is first necessary to establish the conditions and significance of that event.  

In an attempt to rescue her, a man who hunted demons was bitten by the possessed woman and infected with familiarity, a process that normally resulted in the creation of a were familiar. In his case, he was turned into a woman, while the demon took on male form. The demon tracked the hunter down, to claim its familiar and bend it to its will; raping her and conceiving the protagonist. The hunter was able to escape, however, by slaying the demon and wresting the soul of its host free from possession. 

The hunter and the demon's former host shared the hunter's body, unaware that the demon had taken refuge in the depths of the unborn child's psyche. The child inhered the ability to change sexes, along with the other benefits of being a familiar. When the hunter and the host found a way to be divided, they decided to have the child divided as well. Once this had been done, the hunter and the host each took one incarnation of the child and went their separate ways. The division crippled the demon, trapping it in the rift opened the child's psyche. It tried to draw them together, striving to forge enough intimacy between them to heal the rift. Together, however, they were strong enough to defend themselves from possession. When the demon tried to counter by eliminating one of them, the boy sacrificed himself to destroy the demon. Ironically, this forced the demon to come into its own soul on the brink of destruction. 

The quesiton of self determination without special or exceptional circumstances cannot be fully satisfied, but they can be minimized using the stated version of demonic interference. The child's soul was drawn to the opportunity of a life encompassing both sexes and genders. In that sense it is appropriate to say that the child chose this life, but only in the manner any soul might choose a specific life from the opportunities implicit in the circumstances of conception. The division of the child into male and female incarnations is convincingly established through the actions of the parents. In spite of the mother having originally been a man, or the child being conceived during rape, the pregnancy was not aborted and would have been reason to refrain from using a means of dividing the parents until after the child was born. So, the child was divided intentionally after the parents in the belief that it would be too difficult for a child to grow up with an ability to change sex. This would mean that the division would have occurred at the earliest opportunity. 

The early division and separation of the boy and girl helps to suppress the demon within. There are other aspects of the demon within thread that have be modified as a result. The boy was presented as the son of the hunter and the woman who had been possessed, claimed by the hunter after she "died" in childbirth. The woman had been forced to establish a new identity as the hunter's cousin; in her new body, she was a female version of him. Following her mother's "death" in the massacre, the girl was taken in by the hunter's recently widowed brother and father of two girls. To establish a likely cause for the woman's possession and the childhood trauma endured by the girl, it is possible to still make use of the academy and adversaries thread, in which the demon was simply a weapon used by an adversary to attack the academy. A later attack, when the girl is seven, presents an opportunity for the adversaries to discover the presence of the demon and awaken it. This allows the avatars thread to be integrated as well. In the original demon within thread, the girl is the only survivor of the massacre, and when revised so the mother is turned into a vampire who feeds under the guise of a courtesan, she can be legally dead but still an intimate part of the girl's life. 

The girl's mother, as a vampire, provides the girl with a link to the underworld, though it is plausible that she would try to distance herself for the girl's own protection. So, more likely, it would be others in the underworld who try to pull the girl in to gain leverage over her mother. The girl is "discovered" by her grandmother, neither knowing they are related, and trained in the naked dance, performing and touring as the heir to the school and its tradition. The boy is raised by his father, traveling with him and trained by him, so he is rarely in close proximity to the girl in spite of being a "distant cousin" being raised by his uncle. It is possible for them to have occassional contact over time and intimate moments as "kissing" cousins. As far as them having the same name, the situation allows them to have the same family name in a society where that is used for formal address, and the use of personal names implies close familiarity. As the girl's cousin, the boy steps directly into a role found in the original demon within thread. Their relationship becomes intimate during her investigation of the massacre, when they confront the demon within. This is also the time when the boy and girl become involved with an outsider. 

The outsider takes an interest in the girl, making him a rival of the boy while his interest in the ruins and involvement in demon hunting makes him an ally at times as well. The outsider's activities have already made him a target for assassination and the girl becomes caught up in the matter by virtue of her own investigation, her involvement with the outsider and her own ties to the underworld. The girl's relationship with the boy is turned upside down when her investigation leads to the revelation that the boy is her other half. As the demon gains strength, it becomes able to take temporary possession of the boy or the girl, but it does not take them long to realize what their blackouts mean. They realize that the demon is trapped between them and discover that they can lend each other the strength to shake off its possession. The demon waits for the opportunity to possess the boy while the girl is off guard, to slay her before she can help him fight free. The demon exploits their attraction to each other to create that opportunity by subtly undermining their resistance to the temptation to close the gap between them through intimacy. When the boy is eclipsed, he has a glimpse of the demon's intentions and instead of fighting for control of his body, he retreats from it into hers. 

The boy expected his psychic fusion with the girl to be lethal to the demon, trapped in a body without his soul to animate it, but the demon had an epiphany in the face of oblivion, grasping the spark of its own soul. As the boy became a part of her, the girl recoiled from his lifeless body, and realizing how the demon had been trapped inside it, had to arrange to destroy it to make sure the demon was truly destroyed. The authorities were told that the boy had been possessed by a demon, and that the girl had slain him while defending herself from rape and murder. The girl was arrested, stripped and searched body and soul for signs of demonic influence, and when several were found, held in prison while her story was investigated. The investigation delayed the cremation of the boy's body long enough for the demon to recover and reanimate the body. He was no longer a demon, but he was not mortal either. While the young god made his escape, the girl's fate was hanging in the balance as her inquisitors tried to figure out what she was. They had found evidence of the boy in her psyche and spiritual traits of demonic origin similar to those found in familiars. She had the same powers of regeneration, heightened senses, strength, speed and reflexes, but she did not change into anything. 



Option

The idea of dividing the character into male and female incarnations presents an opportunity for the two halves to become intimate innocently, but it also limits the scope of the gender identity conflict that provides the true impulse behind the character. There is an alternative possible using the same conceptual origin. The demon possessed a woman and bit the man who hunted it, turning him into a woman who is raped by the demon, as part of an effort to break her and bind her to it as its familiar. She manages to escape and is not able to abort the pregnancy. The hunter had no idea she could return to her natural form until after the girl was born, after she had accepted her transformation, approached her family as the widowed bride of her former self to legitimize her daughter. When the girl is born she proves to have inherited the ability to change sex. Initially, her transformations were triggered by the hunter transforming. When the hunter discovered it was possible to return to her life as a man, she was tempted to raise the girl as a boy, claiming that their ability to become female was a curse placed on them by a demon that gave them several advantages they could use to hunt demons and their familiars. 

If the hunter slayed the demon's host to escape, the demon would only be forced to seek refuge in the shadow of the unborn girl's psyche if it failed to possess the hunter. In this case, the soul of the woman would still be the demon's host. The girl might not confront her consciously until the demon succeeded in eclipsing her, at which point the girl would have been living as a boy for ten years and in conflict over his desire to be a girl. During those years, the world within would have been a safe retreat, a place to escape to in dreams and be herself... Or, following the notion that by seeding itself in the girl's unborn soul the demon was gradually assimilated by her developing psyche, its host can appear to the girl as a ghost -- or goddess within.  

This creates a situation in which the child has separate lives as a boy and a girl without being divided. Assuming that the hunter gained the host's form, she would be able to assume the host's identity; the male and female incarnations of the child, as a product of normal conception, would be identical apart from sex, however. The child would be born a girl, a legitimate heir to the host's house, and then presented -- from the age of seven -- as a boy, an illegitimate son but the heir to the hunter's school. 

If the hunter and the host were cousins, the girl and her alter-ego could be seen by others as distant cousins by a house that could benefit from their engagement. Even without this initial connection, the girl might have been betrothed to her alter-ego to block all other match-making attempts.   

The child is identified as the girl and reclaimed as the heir to her house, and unwitting house heads would be responsible for proposing their union. Thus, the boy has to cope with the discovery that he was born a girl, and as her, engaged to himself. In returning to her childhood home, the girl probes the memories of the traumatic end to her life as a girl while discovering what it means to be a girl. Torn between a desire to be a girl and a duty to be a boy, it is easy for her to miss the true cause of her division into both. The demon seized the opportunity to assert itself through the male identity, and gradually discovered the necessity of destroying the female aspect to gain full possession of her soul. In too many ways, however, the demon had become part of her -- a darker reflection of her embraced by her unborn soul. When it tried to strike her down, she only saw a part of her soul possessed by a demon and embraced it to recover that part of herself. 

Taking possession of the demon, and drawing the essence of her other half into herself, she unwittingly sacrificed her male incarnation.  



Ideas and Intentions Recaptured

One complication of this project has been the need to create a uniform environment from diverse inspirations and inspirations that were developed in alternate contexts. The rift, the nexus, and the threshold are all aspects of the interface, exploring the psychic paradox -- a glimpse of the truth of existence, and the full implications of the mind.  

A rough overview starts with the notion that physical manifest reality resolved from a spiritual abstract reality, in the dream model of the resolution of point paradox. it can be looked at as the evolution of universal consciousness or the inner life of any mind and the division of one soul into infinite identities or angels interactively responsible for creation, in which the process of life emerges and evolves into conscious organisms with particular souls. the individual souls participation both enhances and stabilizes the realm, or in other words create reality, a paradigm shift that threatens to end creation. some angels see the cultivation of new souls as a higher purpose, some see the harvesting of souls as a means of gaining power, authority and autonomy, and some see the destruction of life as a necessity for the preservation of creation. fortunately for the living, in spite of being mortal and fragile, the nature of realization limited the power of the angels, demons and emerging gods. it was not perfect protection but combined with the support of the angels and some of the gods, attempts to make creation completely hostile to life failed. life survived in scattered points throughout creation. the potential for psychic power among mortals had emerged with sentience, some of which was stimulated by interaction with angels and demons, creating etherials, immortals and eternals. it was never difficult to rouse mortals against the awakened, so many were forced to retreat from or hide within the mortal majority. some had the power to cross the abyss to create new homes for themselves but when they had problems with their own kind, particularly the ones who could not be killed or destroyed, they were exiled to abandoned spheres. 

An interface of souls encompassing space, time and mind fits together into the proposed theory of mind, as do the concepts of divinity, magic, and psychic or psionic ability. The rift was introduced as a disruption of the realm of Aeirn, a world that was reintroduced as an eclipsed realm accessed from the realm of a Future Earth, the Aegis. Originally, Aeirn was home to a character conceived in the rift and divided into male and female incarnations. The nexus was introduced as a phenomenon involving the collision of several anthropogenic realms. In that story, the main character arrives in the nexus with a group of companions and soon discovers that it is a realm in the process of being patched together from scraps of other realities. 

The various approaches to the establishment of the child of paradox, beginning with the child's conception within the rift, the division and separation of the male and female versions, the threat of a demon within and the conception of the soul of creation are all recurring threads found in the earliest and most persistent threads. 



Adversaries Thread
Academy Thread
Avatars Thread





















































uc1b4u2
kpwriting

23a4cd930e

a968f706e