set up as a place to work out ideas, new or old 


one idea that is inherent to the psychic model of paradox and specific to the modes of angelic or demonic psyches points to the manner in which an inspired mind can resonate with a particular soul. a contrast to the human experience, in which the foundation of a mind is a soul incarnated, the foundation of an angel or demon's mind is the mind of a host soul. specific to this point, angels and demons remain psychic dependents until they embrace their own souls. 

there is a broader spiritual contest that emerged from both nature and artifice. both evolved to encompass the abstract and compliment the manifest. this will need to be explored and incorporated into the greater work.


recovered


20090120 viable threads

the ideas that are being tapped for this project have been in development for decades and each concept has many variations. 

series 

:: major threads :: 

aeirn
perhaps the greatest oversight in the development of this project has been a tendency to overlook one of its earliest inspirations. aeirn began as the setting for a story in which, among other things, the male and female incarnations of the same person meet and merge into one. the mechanism for this was a manifestation of paradox, the rift. instead of pondering how those two ideas disintegrated, it is time to look at the ideas that have emerged to see how they are affected by the restoration of that inspiration. 

the rift
the rift is the manifestation of the shattering blow that splintered reality. the cataclysm and the creation of the rift have been tied together as the climax of the purge, a conflict among the gods that marks the end of the age of creation and the beginning of the age of ruin. in short, the demon that is the host of the realm was drawn into the conflict by the destruction of the soul that was its focus. 

splinters of reality 
the splintering of reality provides an explanation for the existence of different versions of the same people. in particular, it allows the vampire and were-tiger threads to be isolated yet based on the same character. it even works out that the game construct exploits the splintering of aeirn, which is potentially infinite, as if the splinters of reality were different servers. 

the gods, by chance and choice, were scattered among the splinter realms. they had the ability to cross the rift between splinter realms, and used it to hunt or hide from each other in the contest that followed the purge. 

it was always part of the initial inspiration for the boy to be a rift walker and the development of the story established a point where he and his father crossed over to a splinter of reality where he was born as a girl. initially set when the boy is seventeen, it also works to have the boy and his father to have crossed over when he is seven; the father ending up in a triangle relationship with the native version of himself and his lover. the girl's mother was originally depicted in such a relationship. 

demon within - a girl possessed and eclipsed by a demon 
this is the premise of the demon within thread in its mature form, the initial climax in the girl's story. the girl's childhood trauma has long been associated with the demon within thread and many approaches depend on this context. the details of her ordeal return to her as the demon strives to overcome her from within. this struggle for possession presents an opportunity for the boy to gain the girl's form by becoming a familiar -- it can also serve as a motive for immortals to cooperate to destroy her. 

a demon within - variant
one approach for establishing the demon within hails back to the war of the gods and incorporates the exile thread. the exile thread is the original inspiration for the demon within thread, featuring a demigod who was banished to the abyss, the deepest depths of the soul of creation. in the revision, he is not the only entity imprisoned there. the demon and the exile could actually have become trapped in the abyss together, the one used as a weapon against the other. in the original version, the exile was slain, hiss physical access to the realm destroyed, and its spirit bound or banished. 

in addressing the demon's origin, this approach would most likely involve the demon claiming a host soul originating in the realm of aegis. by claiming the soul of an outer god, the demon would have been marked in the eyes of the inner gods as a deadly threat. this alone is cause enough for it to be exiled to the abyss, but there was more. during the war of the gods, the demon collected souls aggressively, and those souls became trapped in a dream-like realm where they were immortal and had offspring who, by virtue of being born native to that realm, were mortal and helped to give the realm more reality. the aspects of both worlds are engraved in the host's mind, providing a template for the world within. 

a demon without
this variation of the demon within works with the thread where the girl takes possession of the demon she confronted during the massacre, turning it into her angel and saving her parents by turning them into vampires. the integration of the angel makes her an avatar of the goddess, bringing her to the attention of the demon of the realm. 

the demon originated in the domain of aegis and the souls it captured gave rise to the domain of aeirn in the demon's shadow. the point of collecting souls was to find a soul of its own; unfortunately, the demon was intent on assimilating the soul it sought, instead of allowing itself to be assimilated. the demon incorporated part of itself into the net, using the system to screen and harvest souls of the aegis. as players, souls of the aegis unwittingly created new incarnations of themselves into which they are drawn at death. 
 
the demon within thread is a key part of the story and is usually established in a childhood tragedy, at which time the girl managed to eclipse the demon attempting to possess her. it was always part of the girl's thread that she possessed and used her psychic potential to eclipse a demon, establishing the demon within thread. there are a number of explored options for defining the circumstances of her childhood trauma. 

the specific events need to be retailored to support the current version of the story; for example, some of the integrated threads feature a strong and persistent relationship between the girl and her mother but the usual foundation of the demon within thread is the massacre of her family. this is tentatively resolved by having the girl resurrect her parents as vampires -- which also serves to introduce her to the underworld they become part of. 

another option would be for the demon within to be a fragment of the demon of the realm, allowing her assimilation of that fragment to be a step toward assimilating the demon entirely, a credible threat -- and opportunity -- in the demon's point of view. 

what is certain is that the event happens when she is seven. when she is seventeen, she returns home and is forced to confront her childhood demons. in addition, the girl’s ordeal triggers his; turning into a girl is his half of the demon within thread. 

the point of allowing the demon to take possession of the girl's body is that it allows the boy to be turned into a familiar, thus gaining the ability to assume the girl's form. the fact that being possessed can allow the girl to experience life in another realm, and thus a completely different environment, is a bonus. the method used to restore her to her proper self is a method that could be used to liberate aeirn from whatever intelligence had harnessed it to exploit it as a game. or, looked at from the other side of the threshold, it could arguably destroy the entire world. 

avatars
a significant amount of the avatars story arc fits directly into working designs, up to and including the possession and eclipse of the main character. 

a boy-turned-girl 
this thread has evolved as the complement of the demon within thread, exploring the boy's ordeal of gradually assimilating his female counterpart. 

her assimilation leaves the demon in possession of her body, until her body is slain and the demon takes possession of his body. another benefit is that the demon within and the demon of the realm are separate entities. the demon within would have originated in the mind of an eclipsed soul of the aegis and most likely would have fallen during the purge or the age of ruin. the world within this demon is still taking shape, inspired by the dreams and memories of souls native to both aeirn and the aegis. 

a girl confronts a boy bitten by the demon and turned into her twin 
the problem here is that this is essentially the establishing event in the demon familiar origin of a person who is divided into male and female incarnations; in order for this boy to be the girl's counterpart, something of this nature has to have already occurred. 

a girl helps the boy cope with being a girl 
this was an original main thread -- a boy-turned-girl -- and can be adapted to resolve a childhood division or merge two splinter incarnations. 

a boy-turned-girl is raped by the demon 
this is the crisis point of the conflict and the opening part of the climax of the demon within thread. as a singular duality origin, this rape would result in the conception of the main character. a conception under the present circumstances would be parthenogenic. 

slain lover

a boy-turned-girl slays the demon 
this is the turning point and escalation of the climax employing one of the oldest inspirations, the slain twin. when the boy-turned-girl slew the demon, its body automatically reverted to its original female form in a desperate attempt to repair itself but the demon was still impaled. 

a boy-turned-girl is possessed and eclipsed by the demon 
this is the revealed mechanism of the slain twin thread. as its host body died, the demon took possession of the only other body available, leaving the girl's corpse to be discovered. 

a boy-turned-girl crosses the threshold 
this element has been developed in several forms, each suitable for the main story line. the ordeal she goes through here is potentially a book in its own right. it can easily be developed as a sequel, however. the original demon within thread involved a struggle for dominance; the girl's possession is intermittent and the boy's transformation gives the demon a way to edge her out and force him to assimilate her. 

unpromised
even though there is an option to have the demon assimilated instantly, the experiences the main character has while eclipsed by the demon sheds light on how people from the realm of aegis gained access to the realm of aeirn. this allows most of the unpromised story arc to be resurrected, up to and including the preparation of the main character to confront the demon and face destruction. 

the unpromised arc initially featured background concerning her return home, an episode involving her education and household obligations passed on from her mother, who had fled from them. among the obligations she faces are the duties to her house and an arranged marriage. the boy to whom she has been engaged is the son of the man her mother was supposed to marry, a pact between houses that had been put off for a generation. 

accidental assassin
the girl fell in with the wrong crowd while growing up. her amazing agility earned her an unwilling, street-wise apprenticeship in cat burglary, disguised initially as training in gymnastics, acrobatics and fighting known as shadow-dancing. she does such a good job of obscuring her life as a thief that she somehow ends up with a reputation in the underworld as an unusually competent young assassin. 

threshold, eve of paradox
the follow-up to the unpromised arc is the threshold story arc, which is set up in the opening story. some characters and elements of the threshold can be introduced in the first book, along with characters and elements of the accidental assassin. 

 
loose threads & variations

the girl crosses the rift
it is possible that it was the girl who crossed over with her father following the death of her mother. her father was a rift walker, like his counterpart, and entered the rift to rescue his daughter when she fell into the rift to escape from the demon that was trying to possess her. this approach causes the girl's mother to be eclipsed and take on the role of the goddess of mystery in the unpromised thread. the girl's adversary is her mother's personal demon -- her own is currently in possession of her body. her mother's demon seeks to seduce her into embracing the demon within her. 

in her own world, the girl and her father were the only survivors of the massacre that wiped out their entire extended family. in part, it was having nothing to return to that compelled her father not to try finding their way back home. in both worlds, the mother was the protégé of the father's mother. officially, the girl is an orphan and a protégé of the boy's mother. her father was presented as his counterpart's twin, at his mother's insistence -- to claim the girl as her own heir. 

the other boy
the engagement the girl is thrust into does not need to involve her male incarnation; in fact, the engagement is a threat to her relationship with him, or more accurately, her relationship with him is seen as a threat to her engagement. the boy she is engaged to is actually a player character, as in the threshold thread. 

the boy the girl ends up engaged to was introduced through the game as an orphan. her father takes him on as his protégé and heir to establish his own tradition in the art. he employed the art and the skills of an assassin as a hunter of immortals, and taught them to the boy. the boy took an interest in the girl when she became caught up in the world of assassins and immortals. 

this approach also lends itself to a version of the wager, involving her in events that lead up to the ruins becoming the site for the trials, through her helping to reveal what is lurking within them. it would involve her in events that end in her death -- or possession by her demon and complete assimilation by her other half, incorporating elements of his transformation. both of them endure a trial of transformation as she struggles with being infected with vampirism and animorphism, eclipsed by her demon, redeemed by her other half and finally merging with him. 

the cabal
originally envisioned as a group conspiring to raise a demon or god of death, it evolved into a faction of inner gods or lost souls collaborating in a plot conquer the demon of the realm. the cabal is a conspiracy of adversaries, each seeking to dominate and devour the demon in the hopes of becoming the soul of creation, each needing the help of others to make the demon vulnerable to such an assault. this makes for an unstable alliance of opportunistic rivals at best. they cooporate to create a situation to their advantage and then compete to exploit it. 
 
overview : clean breakdown of key events 
a girl eclipsed a demon at seven
a girl meets a boy
a girl falls in love
a girl returns to confront her childhood demons at seventeen
a girl is possessed by the demon within during her blackouts 
a girl bites the boy during a blackout 
a girl confronts the boy bitten by her demon and turned into her twin
a girl helps the boy cope with being a girl

a boy-turned-girl assimilates the girl
a boy-turned-girl is raped by the demon
a boy-turned-girl slays the demon
a boy-turned-girl is possessed and eclipsed by the demon
a boy-turned-girl crosses the threshold

child of fusion : demon within :: first arc
the demon of the realm plays a part in the manifestation of the child of fusion
the mother was pregnant when the demon possessed her
the father was bitten in a struggle with the demon
the father is transformed into a twin of the mother
the mother's body is consumed by the manifestation of the child
the demon is forced to possess the father to escape the dying body
the demon withdraws before the child is fully manifest
the child of fusion awakes in a pool of blood
...
the child of fusion sires a male incarnation of himself
the child of fusion bears a female incarnation of herself
the boy and girl are born to separate houses
...
the child of fusion is possessed by an inner demon
the demon is torn between the boy and girl when the child of fusion is slain

child of fusion : demon within :: second arc
the rapport between the boy and girl gives the demon a way to restore itself
the demon exploits the girl's trauma, trying to possess her from within
the demon exploits their most intimate rapport to seize the boy's body
the girl's attempt to recover the boy's body goes awry
the demon attempts to rape her
the demon is slain in the struggle
the body shifted to female form but it was not enough to heal the damage
the demon escaped by possessing and eclipsing her

outline :: tripping the rift
the boy and girl travel to the city to attend the academy
the boy and girl are unwittingly following in their parent's footsteps
the girl arrives at the manor on its estate outside the city
the girl begins to have flashbacks to the night she was orphaned
the girl's family was slain in an attack on the academy during the invasion
...
the boy and girl are tested for rift potential
the trial involves visiting another version of reality
the spell targets an alternate of the girl's reality where she was not orphaned
the boy and girl switch with the same alternate incarnation
the girl switches with their alternate first
	the alternate is held in stasis in the girl's body
the boy switches with their alternate in the girl's body
	the boy is held in stasis in the girl's body
	the alternate is held in stasis in the girl's body
the girl ends up in the boy's body on her return from her alternate's world
the girl confronts the fact that the boy is a version of her 
the boy had physically crossed to the girl's world as a child
the girl is shown how to switch with the boy
the girl and the paladin decide not to tell the boy what they learned
the alternate physically crosses over to the girl's world 
the boy's friends witness the boy's transformation into a girl
the friends confront the female boy 
the boy confronts the prospect of being stuck as a girl
as a girl, the boy is a tomboy
the boy and girl contemplate experimenting with being the opposite sex
the demon displaces the boy, forcing him to merge with the girl
the demon rapes and murders the girl and escapes in the boy's body
...
the tomboy returns to the alternate world to start a new life
the tomboy gets in over her head at a party
the tomboy gets swept into the tides of the alternate's life
the tomboy is forced back into the vampire's household
an attack on the vamire's household is led by a rival were
the tomboy becomes a casualty of their long, bitter conflict
the tomboy is raped and murdered
the tomboy escapes death by merging with her alternate, now part of the girl
the girl crosses over to the alternate world to investigate
the girl goes after the tomboy's murderer
the girl catches the eye of an assassin 
the assassin guesses her intention and appoints himself her mentor
the girl's pursuit of the rapist/murderer leads her into the underworld
the girl is taken to be the tomboy, raised as a vampire, by those who attacked
the girl catches the eye of the vampire 
the vampire learns her story and becomes her patron and ally in the underworld
the girl comes up against a were-tiger, the vampire's ancient rival
the were attempts to steal her away, biting her when she resists
the girl flees into the vampires arms, bitten and bleeding
the vampire can not resist a drink, draining her to the brink of death
the vampire is tempted to indulge himself and destroy her before she can turn
the vampire decides that there is still a chance to turn her into a vampire
the girl is overwhelmed by the conflicting interests and infections
... 
the girl returns to her world and retreats to her estate


20081231-1838 child of fusion

the child of fusion impulse can be established starting with a child of natural conception. under normal circumstances, the child would have been born a girl. the extraordinary aspect to the situation was the mother being possessed by the demon of creation early in her pregnancy. 

assuming that the story survives into the next generation, the child of fusion can establish the male and female incarnations without using a time-loop or reality-split, options that have been exhaustively explored without satisfaction. 

the most direct prompt for the mother’s possession would be for her to be a reincarnation of the demon’s focus. the most logical time for her possession to occur—at seventeen, an age when she could reasonably be pregnant—would be during an ordeal at the conclusion of her initiation. 

the child’s embryo acted as a catalyst during the manifestation of familiarity between the demon and the father. the child’s genome served as the template for a complex fusion of the parents’ combined genome. as humans with avon ancestry, the parents each carried the dormant genetic material necessary to resurrect the avon sex chromosome. the child manifested in the avon form, as the alternative to the male and female forms exchanged by familiarity. the demon escaped the consumption of the mother’s body by taking possession of the father’s body, which was also affected by the revised manifestation of familiarity. 

apart from being displaced and eclipsed—a condition that places them among the inner gods—the parents remain present, and normal.  


20081220 - key impulses

felicity: okay, here's what i remember (sorry i didn't get to it earlier!):

	in this world everyone has angels and demons as a part of their soul.

	gods are powerful beings who manifest angels and demons as other beings. 

	there is a girl and a boy who are actually alternate versions of themselves, but the boy is in the girl's world and eventually she has to take him on to save him as part of herself. 

	there's a struggle for identity. 

	she becomes powerful because of this. 

	there are vamp and were factions in the world. 

	because of her changing, both factions consider her on their side (however she is a vamp-that-is-not-a-vamp and a were-that-is-not-a-were) and want her support for things. there are magic users and psychics as two forms of power users.

	i also remember you talking ages ago about paladins.

does that help?

20090110 accidental and sequential incarnations

a boy, an accidental incarnation of the goddess conceived by the artist in an attempt to sire a redoubt, a parthenogenic reincarnation of himself 
	hunger & thirst arc
	he was assumed to have been conceived by the will of the goddess and was surrendered to his father at the age of seven
	he assumed that the girl was simply another initiate traveling with them to the academy
	he was initiated as an artist, the protégé of his father’s protégé 
	he was angelic, adopting the male identity imposed by his father to protect his true identity
		the irony was that his previous incarnation was a nymph—neither male nor female but equivalent to both
		the ordeal he faces is confronting and embracing his true identity and choosing to become female
			he dreamed of being a girl and convinced himself that it was simply anticipation of the girl of his dreams 
			he was astonished when the only girl he wanted proved to be the one girl he could not have—his cousin and foster sister

the boy’s host father
		an artist, born in secret into the ardoen branch of the phoenix house 
	his mother faked her death when she discovered her pregnancy 
	his mother assumed a new identity as a courtesan and he was officially born premature, presumably the son of her patron
	he was sponsored to the academy by his mother’s patron
	he was touched by the goddess—but raised in the tradition of worship of the god usurped by the church

the boy’s host mother
	a muse, born into the arden branch of the phoenix house 
	her mother was pregnant when her husband was assassinated—their previous child, a son, was safe at the academy when the purge began
	her mother took sanctuary as a priestess and the goddess delayed her daughter’s birth to obscure her paternity
	she was sponsored to the academy by the sanctuary
	she was devoted to the goddess—but forced to worship in secret

the artist and the muse were from rival branches of a house in exile
	their lineage was concealed in the early years of the purge because children were being targeted to eliminate heirs
	they were sent to the academy for additional protection
	they became friendly rivals under the same mentor at the academy while they were initiates
	they became a couple during their final year of initiation

a girl, an orphan displaced in time and adopted by the muse
	accidental assassin arc
	she was found lost in the ruins by the artist and delivered to the muse when the artist arrived to claim his son
	she was the heir to her brother’s title and the only survivor of the attack upon his home
	she was fostered by her aunt and initiated as a muse
	she had a guardian angel, created to protect her in her first human incarnation as the boy
		the irony of her situation is that she dreams of the boy she used to be—and at the same time saw as her protector
		the ordeal she faces is falling in love with the boy and watching him evolve into the goddess
			she becomes intimate with him at the academy, in spite of the fact that he is the son of her adopted mother
			she makes his ordeal more difficult by being the girl of his dreams—and pushing him to the point of crisis

the girl’s mother
	a tomboy turned courtesan with a hidden past 
	her arrival at the academy during a rift storm brought her to the attention of the mentor and master of the artist and the muse
	her impeccable breeding was evident and her refusal to discuss her past was attributed to flight from the purge

	the tomboy became caught up in the purge as part of a house in exile
	the tomboy became a companion of the master of the artist and the muse
		she was confronted by the master and coaxed into confiding in him
	the tomboy became the paladin of the goddess
		she was seduced by the artist—unable to resist the affinity the led to her inception—and became his other lover
		she became an intimate of the muse—pursued by the muse as the lover of her lover
		she was introduced to the older brother of the muse, who pursued her hand in marriage
	the tomboy was caught in a paradox
		she married into the arden branch of the phoenix house to ensure that the girl would be born into it
		she knew the attack on her home was coming, but could do nothing to prevent it
		she knew the manner of her own death, and had to endure it

the artist and the muse became caught up in the purge upon completing their primary initiation
	the artist was chosen as the agent of the church assigned to spy on the paladin of the goddess
		he was instructed to maintain the appearance of neutral lineage and remain closely associated with the woman
		he was required to gain her confidence and report on her to his superiors
		he was to subdue, capture and or kill her on command
	the artist confronted the muse and confided his true lineage and commission
	the artist, the muse and the paladin became companions, mentoring initiates under the supervision of their mentor, now a master
	they became involved in the growing conflict between their master and his rivals

	morgan 
		gender: masculine & feminine 
		usage: welsh, english 
		pronounced: mor-gən (english)   
		from the old welsh masculine name morcant, which was possibly derived from welsh mor "sea" and cant "circle". as a (possibly unrelated) feminine name it was used by geoffrey of monmouth for the arthurian sorceress morgan le fay. since the 1980s in america morgan has been more common for girls than boys.


20081226 soul of creation - suspended impulses

they became involved in the climax of the purge
	she was marked for use as a weapon against the goddess
	he was used to deliver her to the cabal
	she was possessed by a demon who used her to get to the goddess

the demon expected the paladin of the goddess to be destroyed in its attack upon the goddess, so it maintained a link to its established host when it projected itself into the paladin’s mind. once the demon possessed the paladin, it went dormant, leaving the impression that she had driven it out. it waited for her to go to the goddess, for the goddess to probe her mind for any lingering taint. to find the demon hidden in the depths of the paladin’s mind the goddess would have to create an opening in her own mental defenses the demon could infiltrate. 

the demon had one critical advantage; the goddess had been its creator. 

the goddess had been identified as the soul of creation. the attack upon her was intended to awaken the mind of creation, or rather, to manifest the creator. the demon could not hope to possess the goddess, but it was capable of devouring her soul. instead of dominating the mind of the goddess, the demon set about tearing her mind apart from within, consuming the pieces until the soul within was naked. this was what would provoke the demon that had claimed her soul for its focus; the mind was what demon used to grasp a soul. without a mind, the soul slipped out of the demon’s grasp. 

the goddess understood the implications of what was happening to her better than anyone. the threat of her destruction would cause her demon to descend upon her and retaliate with a power unlike anything imaginable. the dream she and her kind had woven into reality would be shattered. nothing mortal would survive. the only way to prevent that was for her to embrace annihilation. the only consolation was knowing that her naked soul would survive, through a scheme she had set in motion ages ago to create a brand new incarnation of herself. 

the goddess embraced the demon that was devouring her, possessing it and imparting it with two imperatives. one ensured her instantaneous annihilation, the other ensured that her soul would be passed on to the child of her paladin, whom she had already prepared to conceive a child with her true love. for an instant, the demon possessed her soul and was possessed by it. unable to stop itself, it thought the thought that turned that soul inside out and the part of the demon’s mind that had been the goddess dissolved into a mist of incoherent information. 

they were at ground zero, cast in the rift on the eve of paradox 

in a realm where the child was conceived and born a girl, her father’s identity was obscured

in a realm where the child was conceived and born a boy, his mother’s identity was obscured

in a realm where the child was conceived and born able to turn into a girl or a boy…
	the woman was possessed by a demon and bit the man, making him its familiar
	the demon turned male and raped the familiar when he turned female
	the familiar mother inflicted a mortal wound on the demon father, forcing it to possess her
	the demon bore the child to be its familiar
	the child was conceived with the ability to turn into a girl or boy
	the child initially turned into a boy when touched by a male or into a girl when touched by a female

in each realm, the child was presented for initiation at the age of seven

the girl freed her mother from demonic possession by converting the demon into her angel
the girl resurrected her slain mother as a vampire
the vampire mother struggled to raise her daughter in the underworld
the vampire mother was forced to call upon her courtesan heritage to survive in the underworld

the boy tore through the fabric of reality fighting to escape from demonic possession
the man freed his son from demonic possession by banishing it to the depths of his psyche
the man raised his son in the realm the boy tore through to—the girl’s realm
the man took the place of his slain counterpart, presenting the boy as the son of an anonymous courtesan

the child was presented as a ploy to get the demon inside to carry out its attack
the child recognized what was happening and lead the children to safety 
the child did not deny being the demon’s familiar when confronted by the paladin
the child was offered sanctuary as an initiate sponsored by the paladin


