threads

the notes [*] used as a foundation for this revision were developed as events of the main story and then reconsidered as historical events when practical resolutions [!] for other threads were found. although some revisions were made, the roles and circumstances of the eve of paradox still provide ways to integrate established events. in order to keep the eve of paradox as an immediate part of the story, a few different options would need to be explored to replace events and circumstances that conflict with or contradict those contributing to the eve of paradox. 

first conflict -- the ring of paradox is no longer needed as the cause of the protagonist's possession or the host's introduction. the eve of paradox introduces the host as an academy initiate and the protagonist's peer. the ring can remain a device for changing sex, with the same curse. the boy would be stuck as a girl initially due to reluctance to have sex, and then because the ring is lost or stolen, but no longer is a device for the girl's possession by the demon of the realm. instead, she becomes possessed as a consequence of being used as the instrument of the goddess's fall. the protagonist would find herself on the threshold and the host would know to look for her there while the demon was in possession of her original body. 

second conflict -- the boy no longer needs to have a twin; the host can easily take over the role of the rival and slain lover, if those options remain open. as the host, he can still attempt to strike at the demon through the girl and end up in possession of her body; in the meantime, however, the demon has an opportunity to bite the boy while in possession of the girl. then, when confronted with the attack from within, the demon would take possession of the boy, leaving the host in possession of the girl's body. when the boy embraces the demon, leaving the girl in possession of his body, they would be able to share that body using its male and female forms to assert their normal identities. 

third conflict -- the adversary banished by the demon can remain an architect of the plot against the goddess. as in the practical resolutions, he would be banished to the abyss of the demon's mind, before the demon is embraced by the boy, and later find his way out of the abyss of the girl's mind when she is seven and a demonic assassin probes her psyche. he would break through to her unconscious mind in the year leading up to the eve of paradox and steal the male aspect of the boy's body to resurrect himself after the eve of paradox; essentially picking up where he left off. because of the division, the girl can only pass on part of the curse of familiarity; the natural regeneration she was born with. since the curse originates with the demon and is "inspirational" by nature, it is not a paradox for the second incarnation of the protagonist to be vessel used to infect the first incarnation. the host is able to take advantage of the curse to resurrect avonlea, after she sacrifices herself to save her younger incarnations. 

a point of paradox -- the eve of paradox provides a mechanism for a portion of the cast to be transported through time and space, so there is no need for a second rift storm precipitated by the pentration of the seven-year-old girl's mind. that assault could occur before the eve of paradox, as part of events leading up to it, or after -- with the added benefit of helping to establish her in the past. if set prior to the eve of paradox, the raid would be part of the plot against the goddess. 

paradox -- the nature of events ensures that some individuals understand the true significance of the eve of paradox and will have different opinions about the consequences of preventing or permitting it. the study of the rifts begins with the manifestation of rifts in the past, as attempts to explain them and discover their cause. prior to the eve of paradox, most will believe that the rifts were created by the use of magic, on the theory that it could tear the fabric of reality. some suspect that the rifts are the result of a traumatic blow to the foundation of reality -- the soul of creation. a few believed it was evidence of someone mastering the demon of the realm and seizing power over reality. 

[!] aeirn - destroyed and recreated -- in the inner realm, a recreation of aeirn resolved around the souls eclipsed by the demon in its search for a soul of its own. the inner realm was initially a cold and lifeless reflection of the outer realm, a foundation upon which the captive souls could dream up worlds of their own. to escape isolation, they had to seek each other out in limbo or learn to share their dreams. 

[!] aeirn - a world of magic and technology -- aeirn was originally conceived as a world with a magical and technological heritage. the common assumption that a magical society would not develop technology and a technological society would discourage the emergence of magic, is debated in front of or with the protagonist at some point. she points out that the two legacies were founded in separate eras. magic originated in the early history of the inner aeirn due to the presence and involvement of gods, but that era was ended by the purge. there was a period following the purge in which some magic and traditions survived, gradually diminishing through conflict and struggle. in the time of the founder, magic, miracles and gods had become myths and legends retained in a few cultures. humanity had been scattered and isolated, reduced to primitive clans and tribes that adapted and reestablished civilization with varying degrees of sophistication and success. as trade and exploration was beginning to reconnect humanity, a child was shipwrecked on an island where some of the last of the immortals made their refuge.

avon - many of the eclipsed, including the soul of creation, were avon. Because they were neither male nor female but encompassed the traits of both, custom dictated that they could worshipped as gods or goddess by humans. 

the god and goddess - the worship of the god and the goddess in the north predates the third age of magic. throughout the history of aeirn, certain people possessed an affinity for the soul of creation that granted them miraculous abilities or stimulated the development of their own psychic potential. 

the chosen and the touched - those who could perform miracles were called the chosen of the god or the goddess while those who manifested their own potential in response to the touch of the soul of creation were simply called the touched. 

the bloodlines - through controlled breeding, the chosen and the touched determined the characteristics of different aspects of the god and the goddess and houses were established to preserve and promote those characteristics. 

a human incarnation -- the notes to back it up are somewhere in the pile, but in brief the goddess sensed that reality was becoming stable enough to be sustained by its inhabitants and no longer needed her to survive. her hope was that a mortal incarnation might be the key to freeing her soul from the demon, and she had spent thousands of years breeding a population capible of conceiving a child that would embody her in every way but one -- her alien sex. unable to choose between male or female, the decision was left to chance. when the human incarnation of the goddess was conceived, it was a boy. 

[!] the founder - the third age of magic -- raised in the midst of the immortals, the founder was exposed to the remnants of the first age of magic. initially, after confronting the prospect of his mortality, he studied under the immortals in the hopes of becoming immortal, and aided by the vast resources of their archives, he found the promise of something more. the circumstances that brought the gods into existence had long passed and were unlikely to be repeated in this world, but by studying them and understanding the basis of the arts they had practiced, he realized that all sentient beings had the potential for godhood. when the immortals realized what he had discovered, they tried to kill him and when they failed, he fled, taking his revelation with him to human shores. an alien among his own people, it took him a while to adapt to the world the immortals had closed themselves off from, during which time he learned to be cautious in exposing his talents and immortality.

[!] the founder - the revelation -- the founder was born into the merchant class. when he tried to share his enlightenment, upon returning to human shores, he discovered that his breeding was an obstacle to any formal or official recognition, but many individuals were eager to be his disciples, men and women. many of his disciples recorded his teachings, some of which were later altered by those who appropriated them for their own purposes. in addition to obscuring the true author’s identity, the faiths they created became hostile to the remaining gods and immortals, reclassifying some as angels and others as demons, and persecuting older faiths devoted to them. of course, the reclassification was established during the second age of magic, when arts like conjury and demonology were developed to exploit the elemental spirits, including true angels and demons, for power and influence over reality. 

[!] the third age of magic - twists of faith -- the teachings of the founder of the third age of magic included theories based on the legends and lore of the first age of magic during the age of gods concerning the soul of creation. this theory of the dreamer, based on the dreaming legends of creation, held that the only foundation for a world was the same as the foundation of a person, a soul. in the third age of magic, it was commonly accepted that each person contained the potential for an entire world, possibly even many worlds, though prevailing thought held that the world aspect of a soul rarely manifested and only did so at the expense of the personified aspect. the teachings of the third age were adopted by adherents of several monotheistic cults, and embraced as divine revelation by the faiths they established proclaiming the teacher himself as either prophet or messiah while driving the man and his true disciples underground. 

[!] the founder - the academy -- the theft of his revelations, and his misidentification as a prophet-messiah, forced the founder to become even more discrete. the religions spawned or reinforced by his teachings became a force devoted to the eradication of any lingering legacies of the first two ages of magic, but possessing only incomplete versions of his teaching, could not establish a new age of magic. for those with the right aptitude, combined with lore gathered during the purge, it was possible to practice real magic, and some of the teachings stimulated philosophy and science as well. with every generation, civilization continued to advance, even through dark days of war and oppression. with great caution, the founder continued to pass on his legacy, often finding ways into the establishment to choose his protégés from among the ranks of magical and clerical apprentices. those with the right potential were groomed as agents and champions of the various orders supported by church and state. 

[!] the founder - social impact -- ironically, industry helped to diminish the power and influence of the church by upsetting the balance of power between church and state, producing innovations that increased the privileges and opportunities of the common people. the legacy of magic on aeirn was very real. the efforts to wipe out that legacy was blunted by interreligious conflict, as the champions and agents of rival faiths were easier to identify and engage than the odd witch, wizard, warlock or what-have-you. many practitioners of old magic were even able to negotiate special arrangements with the establishment, working as freeagents or trading lore for protection. most simply went underground, shepherded by immortals who were forced out of self-exile by the purge. thus, in a world seemingly much like our own, there is a supernatural, underground, counter-culture. among them, a few new and old gods—or what we would call psionics.

[^] the founder - an ideal educational system -- the academy system was designed to make the most out of every student's potential. it would pay people to learn with the highest incentives being the attainment of essential skill sets. the academy system made it so that anyone with the intelligence and ability to be a doctor was qualified to be a doctor. the same held true of teachers, administrators, soldiers and sorcerers. the key was making the educal system an essential part of the economy. educational institutions no longer had to charge tuition to survive, so they were able to pay students to learn. the process of learning had always taken a lot of work, and people deserved to be paid because that work contributed to the improvement of the individual and the state. that was what the founder believed a social system needed to encourage and what a sound economic theory ought to support! 

[^] the founder - the task system -- the founder of the academy system proposed a new paradigm, in which corporations, companies and businesses paid for the educational system, or rather, paid for the cultivation of skilled staffing and labor through the educational system. in this model, a person's job, first and foremost, was studying. performance controlled access to advancement, higher pay, and better career options. the whole education system became a general labor pool that could be tapped at will by governments, institutions and businesses for general services -- those jobs that anyone could do, and which no one should spend their life doing. the task system that was part of the academy system ensured that education was intimately tied to practical application. 

		"a healthier society would require it's citizens to hold down part time government jobs. it would encourage greater participation in government but it would not provide a shelter for incompetents." 

		opponants found a million ways to poke holes in the theory, to which he replied, "if people worked as hard at trying to make it work, it probably would." the idea was to offer something along the lines of freelance contracting combined with on the job training, an education presented as a guaranteed basic job. the academy system would ensure that anyone who could work, would, and it was designed to encourage them to focus on ultimately acheiving a career outside of it. the proposal emphasized the fact that it ensured the support of those who could not support themselves, so it was essential that the academy and task systems provide academics with basic accomodations -- bed, board and bath on campus. 

		"if you had to, and were careful with your spending, you could survive on it, but you always have the opportunity to work on moving up. the purpose here is to eliminate poverty and make an investment in humanity, providing enough to take care of people in general and keep the doors of opportunity propped open." 

		"i think that people should be paid for education; the companies pay the schools and recruit from them. placement and pay would be based on grade level and performance, with most people automatically qualified for certain types of "drone" jobs, providing a constant pool of candidates for jobs that no one should have to spend a lifetime doing. in a truly sane and healthy society, the emphasis should be on providing each member with all the necessities while encouraging growth." 

		"the funny thing is that it involves the capitilization and socialization of education; it uses both principles. if you work hard and excell, you get more out of it. if you really want to be rich, you can be; you just have to make the best use of your natural talents or assets and turn in a superior effort." 

		felicity: thats an interesting theory... beyond something like automatic military service terms. a place where i could learn forever... ah... heaven!!

		alex: yep! and the thing is, it's not empty learning... you are putting it to immediate, profitable use. you are sort of mentored through the basics and then you apply it to work. 

		felicity: rather than the disconnect you get between a lot of college study and the real world. 

		alex: yep! you get to try anything you want, and if you like what you're doing... you are already in place doing it. if you don't like it, well, you finish your current assignment and apply for a different class/workgroup. 

		felicity: if only the world could cope with that!

		alex: yes... and the thing is designed so that you can skate by and do menial stuff if you want to. the point of it is to allow you to find out what you want to do, enjoy doing, and let you do it. if you take your time finding it, but perform well along the way, you still benefit from becoming more skilled and qualified. 

		felicity: it still sounds like it needs a much stronger government - i know you said businesses would sponser, but i don't know...businesses are always out for themselves. 

		alex: well, they would appreciate a huge, happy labor pool out of which they were handed qualified workers whenever they asked. the academy system is designed to see to their needs and welfare, so all they have to do is provide the work. if someone does not fit in or perform well, they're sent back with a bad grade and they either have to retake the course or enroll in something different. 

[*] forge -- a slave, rescued and initiated at the academy, went on to conquer and forge the northeast kingdoms into an empire. originally a girl, she had made use of the ring of insight to escape her master and was initiated as a boy. her vandetta against slavery pit her against the conjurers and wizards of the northeast kingdoms, driving them out.

[*] the northern conflict -- the conjurers and wizards, many necromancers and demonologists, regrouped in the northwest kingdoms. the empire pursued the exiles, resulting in a two-fold invasion of the northwestern kingdoms. 

a school founded to study and control rifts -- an unintentional consequence of the use of magic was that it could tear holes in the fabric of space and time. within the rift, dreams and nightmares were reality. this dangerous phenomenon could be as small and subtle as a breeze -- and more devestating than the fiercest storm. 

[*] the adversary -- a descendant of one of the northeastern exiles, initiated at the academy, devoted himself to the study of the rift created on the eve of paradox. his partner in these studies made a breakthrough discovery that ultimately led them to become adversaries. his partner opposed the exploitation of the rift, its mysteries and demons to acheive godhood. the adversary believed that the correct pairing of demons and hosts could result in the creation of a god. 

[*] the ascendants -- the adversary recruited followers using the promise of godhood - using trial and error to perfect his method. the adversary's trials unleashed a plague of demons the academy was forced to hunt down. ironically, the academy's champions tended to be ideal candidates - many were captured and subjected to trials. the adversary used the rift to gain access to the abyss where he forged alliances with the gods and demons he found there. 

[*] demons of the underworld -- many of the northestern exiles escaped into the underworld where a few discovered the ruins and the demons imprisoned there. the adversary infiltrated the cabal of exiles to gain access to the imprisoned demons - a step to fulfilling his demonic pact. the adversary dispatched demon assasins to thwart the academy's plans to investigate the ruins. 

[*] a religion under seige -- it was a time when the followers of the goddess faced persecution from the church of the one god. the followers of the goddess had hope, fueled by rumors that an avatar of the goddess had been born. the girl those rumors spoke of did not discover what she was until she came of age -- and she was not prepared to face it. 

[*] the paladin of the goddess -- the girl who was born embodying the characteristics of the goddess became involved in the climax of the purge when she was marked for use as a weapon against the goddess.
	
[!] ash, asher - the boy is the first incarnation and a rival for the girl's affections. his mother was already intimately involved with their father when she learned that he was engaged to someone else. his father was confronted with the news that his family had arranged for him to marry a distant cousin about the same time his mother discovered she was pregnant. her only option was to become a muse, to legitimize her son's birth without the need to identify his father. as a muse, or goddess surrogate, she was priestess and companion to all men devoted to the goddess. 

[!] brand, brander - the father learned the boy was his when he arrived at the academy and became his student. at that time, the title the boy was heir to had been transferred to the girl, based on her assumed lineage. so, his mother confided the truth, giving his father the option to tell the boy when he was old enough to handle the truth. 

[!] clay - his interest in the girl grew out of his rivalry with ash and efforts to exploit her experience with the ruins and the underworld to test himself against normal demons before facing the demon of the realm. 

[*] clay, an incarnation of the host -- born and raised on outer earth in modern times, he was possessed by the demon and found his way to the inner realm with the help of the goddess. she respected his desire to search for some way to recover his body and return to his former life. there was much for him to learn and to give him a solid foundation, he posed as a mortal to be initiated at the academy. while there, he became involved with the girl who would be the paladin of the goddess. 

[!] ember, emberlea - the girl is the reincarnation of the boy - as a result of the boy's transformation into a girl and the girl's displacement into the boy's body, the girl is her own mother. the girl is also her own mentor, by virtue of falling through the same time rift twice; first as ash, or ashlea, a 7 year old girl, second as ember, a 17 year old girl. the daughter witnesses the apparent death of her mother in the raid on the manor. that shock, combined with the traumatic assault of her mind by a demonic assassin, gives ash amnesia -- allowing her to assume the identity of ember. 

[!] ashlea, emberlea - orphan option - ashlea and ember emerge from the rift in the past, still within the depths of the underworld and become separated when the younger girl is swept away by the currents of an underground river. it takes a while for her to escape from the underworld, finding her way from a cavern into the ruins under the city. the younger girl is forced to fend for herself until she is discovered as an orphan living on the streets several months later by the founder. 

a street orphan -- the girl falls in with the wrong crowd. her amazing agility earns her an unwilling apprenticeship in cat burglary, disguised initially as street-wise training in gymnastics, acrobatics and fighting known as shadow-dancing. she does such a good job of obscuring her life as a theif that she somehow ends up with a reputation in the underworld as an unusually competent young assassin. even a true assassin would believe it -- until proven otherwise. 

a circus orphan - a patron -- the revisions to the eve of paradox include events to establish the girl as a street orphan; it is not difficult to have her found on the streets by the founder rather than a muse. he would be the most likely to recognize her as an incarnation of the soul of creation. the circus would have an official academy purpose, scouting and recruting people with psychic ability or aptitude for magic. the circus would also be a front for rift research and rescue missions. 

a circus orphan - adopted -- a circus is an appropriate place for a muse, especially one forced by custom to give her son up when he turns seven. upon giving the boy up, the muse is recruited by the founder. when the girl is found on the street, the muse determines she must be her elder cousin's daughter and becomes her foster mother. the manifestation of the girl's curse leads the founder to assume that the girl's mother had originally been a man, based on the secondary transformation the girl exhibited. when the girl is nine, she encounters the boy during initiation at the academy.  

a circus orphan - overlapping herself -- the girl is looped back into the past at seventeen, and identifies herself as a protege of the founder raised and trained in his circus. when asked for confirmation, the founder confronts the girl and deduces that she is the same girl he found on the streets, only ten years older. after an exhausting examination, he confronts her with the truth as he knows it and refers her to the paradox corps which is responsible for managing the paradoxical effects of the rift. 

[!] avon, avonlea - orphan option - the girl recovered most of her memories of the massacre during the events leading up to the traumatic night, and used them to find her younger self in time to slay the demon that was attacking her. she carries the girl through the rift, emerging in past deep within the ruins right in the midst of a group of demons. her appearance marks her as a product of the avon house, so the demons address her as avonlea -- daughter of house avon. while avonlea duels one of the demons to win free passage, ashlea falls down a half-flooded dragon shaft. 

[!] avon, avonlea - life in the circus - while there are certain people avonlea will confide the truth about her past to, her paradox requires a cover story. one is already available, a life in the circus. one of the masters at the academy was part of such a troop that was recently disbanded; he provides the foundation for her cover story, presenting avonlea as his protege. she becomes an agent of the academy paradox corps. she stumbles into her first assignment, as a liaison to military forces from the future inner earth that were caught in a rift storm in space. a following assignment, as a liaison to a dragon in a city from a few hundred years in the future, lasts through the conception and birth of ashley. the rift child -- when ashley is found by a muse, as a street orphan, she is presented to the goddess who recognizes her as a future incarnation of herself. the goddess learns enough about the paradox from examining the girl's mind and eventually confronts avonlea, calling her into service as her paladin. 

a reputation in the underworld -- the connections the girl made among the street orphans managed to keep her tied to the underworld throughout her childhood. the girl's mistaken identification by some as an assassin is based in part upon her past involvement in the underworld. as a child, she was seduced into the life of a cat burglar, but she obscured her activities well enough that some got the impression that she was being prepared for a career as an assassin. those rumors, combined with attempts on her life and suspicious deaths associated with her, proved convincing to some members of the underworld.
	
	the girl's features mark her as a product of the avon bloodline, so she is presented to the head of the avon house. 
	the girl's appearance convinces the boy's family to believe she is the bastard daughter of his mother's cousin. 
	his mother's cousin died in a battle shortly after the girl would have been conceived. 
	the girl was made a ward of the boy's mother and betrothed to the boy to resolve a question of title and inheritance. 
	the boy and girl were not told of their engagement. 
	the family assumed the boy and girl would develop an intimate relationship as a consequence of being initiated together. 
	in spite of being accepted into the boy's family, the girl remained curious about her past.
	the girl grew up plagued by nightmares and determined to avenge her mother, but unable to remember precisely what had happened. 
	no one had been able to find out who her mother had been; it seemed as if her mother had never existed. 
	her mother's anonymity prompted some to believe she had been a courtesan in the underworld. 
	rumors that the girl is an assassin-in-training spread through the underworld 

	the rivalry between ash and clay began the day they met as initiates, when clay mistook ash for ember and set him on a path to the girl's dorm. 
	other's made the same mistake, directing ash to ember's room where he confronted ember for the first time.
	ash was taunted and mocked by the other boys when he moved into the boy's dorm
	the boy's attempt to explain blowing up in his face when clay defended himself by saying "It's not my fault he looks like a girl!"
	popular with the other boys, clay seemed cruel and arrogant to ash, and clay's aparent interest in dark and forbidden subjects made ash even more wary. 
	ash was a natural at the arts, but nowhere near as driven as clay, who found it infuriating that ash could show him up effortlessly and not even seem to notice. 
	ember and ash grew close, and she developed an aversion to clay based on his treatment of ash and a general dislike of the group clay effectively led.
	
[!] childhood trauma - the girl's investigation into her mother's death is prompted by nightmares in which she relives the massacre -- each one providing additional clues she pursues down the path leading up to the raid on the manor. 

	the girl escapes a vampire's seduction. 
	the girl is forced to slay him when he attempts to rape her.
	the attack is witnessed by an assassin who steps in to help cover it up

	an initiate's training includes intimacy, explored as an extension of athletics, specifically gymnastics and dance. 
	this comprehensive form of sex education is considered essential for healthy development, involving practice as well as theory. 
	the time when ninth year initiates pair up was euphemistically known as "mating season". 

	the girl is asked to help a peer win a girlfriend
	the girl gets in over her head at a party, catching the interest of the adventurer

[!] a favor - as mating season approached, the girl helped a friend win the interest of a girl he loved, and gained the attention of an unwanted admirer -- and an assassin. the boy's rival had tried to seduce her before -- after making the wrong assumptions about her relationship with the boy. 

	the boy's rival at the academy becomes interested in the girl after learning of her childhood misadventure in the ruins and the underworld. 
	the rival is the son of a lord with plans that threaten the interests of many within the underworld. 
	the assassin attempts to maneuver the girl away from the rival, to get a clear shot at him on his way home. 
	the girl vents and the assassin takes her words seriously 
		"I'm going to break his neck; or maybe just strangle him. Right after I beat him into a pulp..."
	
[!] a contract - the rival is an adventurer with an interest in exploring the underworld. his petition to mount an official excavation of the ruins met with resistance from agents of the criminal, exile and immortal denizens of the underworld. A contract to assassinate the rival was issued to punish him for repeated intrusions into the underworld and discourage others from probing the underworld. 

	the girl is pursued by the adventurer and the adventurer's assassin

	the rival had tried to win the girl over in the past, but succeeded only in provoking her dislike and distrust. 
	the rival takes a personal interest in the girl upon learning about her experiences in the underworld ruins, treating it as common ground he can use to pursue a deeper interest in her based in part on his rivalry with the boy. 

[!] the expeditions - during the final year of initiation, the rival encourages the girl to lead several expeditions into the ruins and the underworld. suspicious of the rival's true intentions, the boy always accompanies them. 

an approaching storm drove the girl and her friends underground, forcing her to confront traumatic memories of being lost in the ruins. 

while exploring the ruins, the girl found her way to the scene of one part of her ordeal and began to relive it in greater detail. 

[!] lovers - the girl and the boy had been best friends, and explored a few things as if they were girl friends; the girl had always been the one to initiate such things. the girl discovered the boy's true feelings for her as a result of the rival's interference. she confronted the boy and when he confessed, they agreed to be intimates. 

[!] the manor - as the boy and girl completed their initiation, the couple made plans to get married. when the girl arrived at the manor, responding to a summons from the head of the boy's house -- his grandmother -- she assumes the old woman simply wanted to meet the girl his grandson intended to marry. she is instead informed of her status as the house heir and given the keys to the property she has inherited from her supposed father. while at the manor, the eerie familiarity of the place gives her nightmares new strength and clarity. 

	the adversary finally breaks through to the girl's subconscious. 
	the girl inherits her "father's" property and her first visit stirs up traumatic nightmares and crippling flashbacks. 
	the boy comes to her rescue when one of her fits threatens to drown her in the bath. 
	the adversary takes advantage of her trauma to assert himself. 
	the visions force the girl to begin a serious investigation of the massacre. 

the mysterious slayings - the girl's mentor is tasked to investigate a series of mysterious slayings and calls upon the girl for occasional assistance. 

	the boy and the girl join their mentor on a demon hunt
	the investigation leads the girl and her friends into the underworld and dangerous association with its criminal and immortal elements. 

[option a] the tiger's bite - the boy is bitten by a female were-tiger. the boy's infection is treated and a few days later, instead of turning into a tiger, he turns into a girl. the boy's transformation is determined to be a secondary transformation that resulted from an unconscious desire to be female. the boy's innoculation gave him full control of his primary transformation into a tiger

	the girl encounters old acquaintances in the underworld and confronts new threats and challenges to her investigation. 
	the girl interprets the double talk to mean she is supposed to seduce him away from his objective for his own good
	the girl believes that she had promised to guide and protect the mark during his explorations, while serving as a distraction
	the girl agreed to "take care" of the mark in exchange for information she sought in her investigation

	the girl begins to lose time during her forrays into and under the streets of avon. 
	her angel is surfacing to strike down threats drawn to her in response to the psychic imprint she inhereted from the demon of the realm. 

	the investigation ends up leading her into conflict with the underworld's immortals.
	the girl unwittingly stumbled into a plot designed by the cabal of northern exiles and the adversary. 

[option b] the ring of sex - the boy found the ring and was turned female before the ring was stolen from her. the girl recovered the ring and became male to help the boy break the curse and reverse their transformations.

	[a,b] the tomboy's initial transformation is witnessed by a couple of his friends

	[b] the boy discovers a secret hiding place in his room containing items left by a previous occupant
	[b] the boy and his roommates go through the items, finding a cursed ring that has the power to change the wearer's sex 
	[b] the ring had no effect on the first boy to try it on since he was still a virgin
	[b] the boy's friends are shocked when the ring turns him into a girl - a tomboy

	[a,b] the boy confronts the prospect of being a tomboy
	[a,b] the tomboy panics when she discovers that the change is absolute and permanent
	[b] the other boy is fascinated by the transformation and startles his friends by offering to try the ring on himself
	[b] the virgin advises against it, suggesting they learn what they are dealing with first
	[b] the journals found with the ring contain the account of the ring's former owner and his experiences with it

	[b] the tomboy discovers that the curse forces the wearer to have sex to break the spell the first time the ring is used
	[b] the ring of insight, as it is known, was designed to unlock latent human potential associated with the alternate sex
	[b] the ring can be used to transform again once the spell has been broken, swiching sexes depending on how it is donned
	[b] the boys offer their services to help the tomboy break the spell, prompting another panic

	[a,b] the tomboy seeks the help of his mentor and they consult the master, the boy's father
	[a,b] the boy's resemblance to the girl, as a girl, is attributed to the selective breeding practiced by their house -- to preserve the image of the goddess. 
	[a,b] the boy and the girl were both descended from muses bred to embody the traits of the goddess
	[a,b] the tomboy senses that the mentor and the master know something they are not telling her

	[a,b] the tomboy is advised to exploit the opportunity to develop feminine potential and insights as required by the curse
	[a,b] the tomboy's situation is complicated when she is mistaken for the girl by members of her house
	[a,b] the tomboy is forced to confide in the girl after an unexpected confronation in private

	[b] the girl offers to use the ring and help break the spell, in spite of the implications
	[a,b] the tomboy needs time to think about it, so the girl asks him to stand in for her while she pursues her investigation 

	the girl helps the tomboy cope with being a female
	the boy spends his time as a girl learning how to act like one
	the girl does her best to help the boy cope with being female
	the boy spends his time as a boy struggling to cope with his experiences as a girl
	the girl gives him every opportunity to prove that he is male
	the tomboy inherits the girl's unwanted suitor, the adventurer

since the boy had become her duplicate, and wanted to keep his condition a secret, the girl had all the cover she needed to pursue her investigation deeper. unfortunately, this meant that the tomboy had to put up with his rival's advances while posing as her. strangely, the tomboy found those advances hard to resist. the girl's underworld patron, an ally in her investigation who knew she was no assassin, urged her to distance herself from her betrothed so the real assassin would not be compelled to silence her. 

	[a,b] during the boy's ordeal as a girl, he gets caught up in an affair with his former rival. 
	
the boy's transition from male to female occurs in a self-assertive, progressive manner. his spirit was responsive to many masculine influences, but a desire for  a fuller range of expression had always prompted him to identify strongly with feminine influences. 

	the girl recruited the tomboy to help deal with the rival, explaining her obligation to protect and guide him in the underworld

	while posing as the girl, the tomboy unwittingly becomes involved in a plot to assassinate his rival. 

	rumors about the girl, combined with the odd circumstances of his involvement with the rival, make certain members of the underworld suspicious. 

	the assassin tasked to take the rival out believes "she" has the same contract. 

	the girl's actions are perceived by the underworld as a ploy in her effort to fulfill the contract on the rival
	
	the boy is just trying to distract the rival from the girl, while she is engaged in her pursuit of answers. 

	the girl's old underworld "patron" urges the girl to break off her relationship with the rival
	the girl is advised to sleep with the rival in order to end his obsession with her 
	the tomboy volunteers for the break-up date with the adventurer
	the girl promises herself she would "do the deed" herself when it came down to it, trusting the tomboy to play hard to get until she is ready
	the tomboy is frustrated and flustered by the unwanted and disarming attentions of her former rival 

	the girl is investigated in connection with recent slayings perpetrated by her guardian angel during her blackouts

	one of the boys who witnessed the tomboy's transformation tracks her down -- this could be a way to retain the ring of sex; the friend brings the ring he found, thinking it could be used to cure the tomboy. after seeing how the tomboy has changed, the friend would confide his temptation and ask the tomboy's advice. 
	the tomboy is stunned when her friend confesses his desire to use the ring, claiming he should have been born a girl
	the tomboy explains how the ring works, and that the effects would be permanent but her friend is not discouraged
	the tomboy grants her friend's request but then is forced to explain when the girl discovers what they have done

	the other boy who witnessed the tomboy's transformation comes in search of the friend who has gone missing
	the other boy catches the mark trying to seduce the tomboy and tries to defend her honor
	the tomboy breaks up the fight and tries to explain the situation after sending the mark away
	the other boy calms down only to become upset again when he recognizes his missing friend as a girl

	[b] the boy was naturally hesitant to complete the ordeal of the ring's curse, until the ring was stolen. 
	the tomboy discovers that the ring has been stolen and the girl goes to extremes to find it

	a friend confronts him with certain facts and confides that being born and raised a boy is no obstacle to being a girl. 
	[b] the girl tracks the ring to a lord of the underworld and breaks in to recover it - and more information about it
	[b] the tomboy's ordeal encourages her to reconsider her procrastination and consider sleeping with her rival

	the tomboy is seduced by the adventurer
	the boy is half-tempted to take advantage of his rival's interest, to do what he must to regain his manhood. 

	unfortunately, the boy has a hard time working up the nerve to go through with it. 

[!] [b] recovering the ring - the girl recovered the ring from the person it was sold to by the theif. she confronts the boy with a proposal, to use the ring herself and break its curse together.  

	[b] other events contribute to the girl's decision to use the ring, but her main reason is to share the ordeal with the boy and break the curse together. 

	[b] the girl's transformation into the boy's twin confronts them once more with the oddity of their resemblance, but their attention is drawn to more immediate concerns. 
	
the accidental assassin - the slain lover -- a convergence of notes from the accidental assassin and avatars, among other projects, can be resolved here. at this point, the slain lover would be the rival, and his death could be precipitated by a successful seduction of the tomboy. she attempts to deflect his interest by telling him the truth, but he is not discouraged. she panics and flees when she realizes he loves her. he tries to stop her and ends up falling to his death. of course, as the host, he simply returns to the threshold. 

consequences - the rival's death has consequences for the girl, since the tomboy was using her identity. however, in the avatars notes, this is also the point at which the girl falls into a trap that leaves her at the mercy of a demonic psychic rape. 

a carefully laid trap -- the architect of the plot was a rogue member of the academy, an adversary who intended to acheive what the gods themselves had gone to war against each other for -- conquering the demon of the realm. capturing the paladin of the phoenix was the penultimate step. he used her investigation of the underworld to lure her into the trap.

[*] the eve of paradox -- the objective of the plot to summon the demon of the realm was to use its connection to the goddess to conquer it and claim its dominion. once in possession of a body within the domain, the demon was expected to be vulnerable to attack by those who conspired to bring it down. 

[*] the fall of a guardian angel -- the paladin of the goddess was given a guardian angel by the goddess. the paladin fell into a trap the architects of the plot designed to turn her angel into a demon that could be used as a weapon against the goddess. 

[*] the cat's paw -- once the paladin was possessed by the fallen angel, it went dormant, allowing the paladin to believe her guardian angel had defended her from the psychic assault. the paladin escaped from her assailants and returned to report the attack to the goddess. when the goddess probed her mind for psychic damage, she created an opening in her own mental defenses the fallen angle was able to infiltrate. 

[*] the shattering blow -- the goddess had been identified as the soul of creation. the attack upon her was intended to awaken the mind of creation, or rather, to manifest the creator. the fallen angel could not hope to possess the goddess, but it was capable of devouring her mind from within, consuming the pieces until the soul within was naked. this was what would provoke the demon that had claimed her soul for its focus; the mind was what demon used to grasp a soul. without a mind, a soul slipped out of the demon’s grasp. 

[*] the choice -- the goddess understood the implications of what was happening to her better than anyone. if she struggled, the demon of the realm would have time to sense the threat of her destruction and descend upon her to retaliate with a power unlike anything imaginable. the dream she and her kind had woven into reality would be shattered. nothing mortal would survive. the only way to prevent that was for her to embrace annihilation. the only consolation was knowing that her naked soul would survive, through a scheme she had set in motion ages ago to create a brand new incarnation of herself -- the breeding program that resulted in her incarnation as the boy, ash. 

[*] the mote -- the goddess embraced the fallen angel in a fatal fusion, one mind consuming itself in an instant, scattering its ashes within the mind of the paladin. there was nothing the fallen angel could do as it and the goddess dissolved into a mist of incoherent information. 

[*] the rift -- the architects of the plot expected the demon of the realm to have enough time to identify the source of the attack upon the goddess and seize the paladin's soul as it's grasp on the soul of its focus dissolved. they had intended to launch a direct assault on the demon the moment it took possession, but they had failed to anticipate that the destruction of the goddess would be a shattering blow to reality. everyone present at ground zero was cast into the rift, including the paladin, the host and the conspirators positioned for the coup.  

[*] in the eye of paradox -- the demon ignored the host, realizing that he was actively protecting the paladin from the ambush that followed in spite of the rift. once the ambush was thwarted, the demon and the host confronted one another. the demon interrogated the host, learning about the evolution of the inner realm. the demon sensed that the host was tempted to battle it to reclaim his former life and observed that the fate of the paladin and the inner realm was in the host's hands. the demon explained that the rift could be healed if the host stabilized it. reality was created by the participation of the realm's inhabitants and would survive in spite of the loss of its foundation. until the rift healed, reality would be fragmented and prone to paradox. the host accepted the burden of stabilizing the rift and the demon relinquished its hold on the paladin. 

[*] out of paradox -- the host was met at the threshold by the inner gods and told of the souls lost in the rift which was still growing. he guided them through the process of stablizing the rift and rescuing what souls they could.

[*] a lingering threat -- although the authors of this disaster failed to complete their coup, they survived being cast into the rift and remained lost in the deepest, most remote part of the rift until encountered by the self-proclaimed exile and recruited into his service. 

[!] the eve of paradox - the demon possessed the girl and destroyed the wizard, banishing his soul to the abyss. the possessed girl encountered the demon's former host on the edge of the abyss. while the boy was forced to obey the demon, the girl and the host worked to drive the demon out of the girl's body -- and the inner realm. 

	once eclipsed by the demon, the girl found herself in limbo, lost in a nightmare wasteland that was a pale reflection of reality. 
	the demon's realm was an endless and incredibly lucid dream -- an eternal prison. 
	the first person the girl encounters is the soul of the demon's former host. 
	the former host is drawn to her and takes her under his wing. 
	he is the one who explains to her what has happened, where she is and what it means. 
	it takes an eternity to navigate the wasteland nightmare that enveloped the world within. 

		if you believe in demons, or even if you don't, did you ever wonder why they steal souls? more importantly, what happens to those poor souls? well, i found out when a demon devoured mine. it took everything from me; my thoughts, my memories, my entire mind was devoured and digested as it swallowed my soul and took over my body. only an echo of me survived, trapped in the darkest depths of the demon’s mind. 

		i was in pretty bad shape when the goddess found me and nursed me back to sanity. i might have been any trauma victim suffering from amnesia at the start of my new life, if my body did not tell the story of my first act of creation. 

		i was not the only soul to fall prey to this demon. i was found on the edge of oblivion and brought into a world created by the other souls the demon had devoured. the first soul, the one claimed in the demon's fall and the oldest of this world's gods, became my guide and mentor. as the youngest of this world's gods, i woke up with no idea who or what i had been, but possessing the power to become anything i could imagine. the first soul helped me to recover my humanity, but could not tell me if i had been a man or a woman. until i could imagine myself as one or the other, i was neither and essentially both. embodying that little paradox was my first act of creation. 

		while i pulled myself together and learned about the world i had been thrust into, i discovered that there might no longer be room in it for gods. what had started out as a dream shared by the eclipsed souls had taken on a life of its own, filled with life and populated by the mortal descendants of the gods all participating in the realization of that dream. the mortals noticed the waning influence of the gods and began to question and challenge their power and authority -- or even deny their existence. many of the original, immortal creations, and a full third of the gods, began to see intelligent life as a threat to creation. 

		war broke out, between those committed to a culling of the mortals and those devoted to the preservation of all life. under the cover of that war, a tiny faction conspired against all of the eclipsed. the eclipsed had always known that the demon was the true master of our existence, and that it's primary objective was to find the soul that would make it sound and whole. the conspiracy was founded on the idea that a soul could take possession of the demon and possess absolute power and authority over everything in it's dominion. the first part of their scheme required the elimination of all rivals to the demon's claim. 

		i had arrived in the middle of the war, at a time when the gods were beginning to realize that someone was hunting them down one by one. the hunters were quick to see me as a potential short cut to acheiving their ultimate goal, since the most direct way to assault the demon was through me. some of them believed that the demon could be provoked into a direct confrontation by attacking me, or attacking it through me with my soul as the battlefield. 

		in the beginning, i was pretty intimidated by the gods and the prospect of being one of them. i knew i was out of my league, and honestly, i was more concerned with just figuring out who i was and what i wanted from life. i needed perspective, and i was not going to find that by playing god.  

[!] the demon at large - after the demon defeats the attacker it is confronted by the boy. the demon is attracted by the boy's resemblance to the goddess. the demon probes the boy's mind, probing his memories and confirming that he is an incarnation of the goddess. while confronting the boy, the demon becomes aware of the boy's previous transformation into a twin of the girl, and her transformation into a twin of the boy. the demon is both fascinated and disturbed by the secret buried in the boy's mind, an unconscious struggle between his love for the girl and a denied longing to be her. the demon bit the boy during the struggle, infecting them with familiarity. the demon adopts the boy's identity, forcing the boy to continue posing as the girl. 

[!] the host is able to lead the girl back to the threshold of reality. there, they confront the gods -- other eclipsed souls. as the new living host, the girl is the key to defending the realm from the embodied demon's absolute power. the plan is to attack the demon through her, the way it was attacked through its former host. the attack is led by the former host, using a modified binding to conquer the demon. 

[!] a demon's nature - the girl learns about the nature of demons from the former host. angels fall and become demons, spirits that impose themselves on the souls they prey on. most souls rebel against the identity forced upon them, so most demons are tormented souls, filled with pain and self-loathing, striking out at others like a wounded animal and driven in search of the soul that will bring them peace. 

	the host distracts her from the nightmare, and keeps her focused, with a string of revelations. 
	to him, her world was a kind of afterlife. 
	the depths of the demon's mind was where the souls it collected were imprisoned.
	it was also where the nightmare they shared had evolved and solidified into a mortal realm. 
	the seed souls initially entered a kind of wasteland, a chaotic, shifting amorphea polarized by the surreal and the ideal. 
	
!] the demon understood the implications of the trap it fell into and expected the architects of that trap to use any means to conquer it. everyone around the demon was in danger if the gods conspiring against it discovered the identity it had assumed. the demon spent much of its time learning the history of the world that had formed inside it; eventually learning about the destruction of the goddess. 

[!] the demon ignores the boy's pleas, curses and threats over its possession of the girl until "her" behavior brings unwanted attention to it. the animosity between them threatened "their" engagement. to perserve the status quo, the demon is forced to confide, explaining the danger of the situation. 

[!] the creation of the inner realm - the demon had been unaware of the recreation of aeirn, dreamed back into existence by its captive souls, until it was drawn into the world within it through the soul of its living host. the demon had been caught off guard by the cunning trap and stunned to be confronted by an individual who almost perfectly embodied the traits of the avon it still loved -- and did not know had been destroyed in the plot to conquer the demon. 

[!] the boy struggled to calm the demon out of its grief-stricken rage, prompting the demon to confide the story of its fall. the demon begins by asserting that it knew what it was like to take the place of the person one loved. the demon wonders aloud if it, like the boy, had possessed an unconscious desire to be the person it had loved so passionately. it wondered if that meant her soul was the soul it had needed to become an independent being, and it had failed to embrace that soul properly. the boy wondered if the demon had ever given a soul the chance to embrace it, or if by taking possession the demon forced every soul to fight it. 

[!] the boy denies wanting to be the girl, but the demon disagrees. the demon says he might reject the idea of taking her place from her, but asserts that the boy had always wished, deep down, that he was her. that was why, since his transformation, it had been so easy for the boy to be her. the demon points out that, unless the boy accepted the demon's offer to return to his former self, he was her. it suspected that if the boy did give in, he would not want to stop being her. when the boy continued to object, the demon promised to prove it. 

[!] an angel's fall - the boy eventually learns the story of the demon's creation -- the events of an angel's fall. on the original aeirn, an angel fell in love with an avon. the avon was slain and the angel, unable to accept her death, clung to and unintentionally took possession of her soul, severing itself from the soul of its creator. as a result, the demon confronted two problems: her soul had become the focus of the demon's existence and her mind was exiled to the unconscious depths of the demon's mind. her survival depended on the demon's survival and its existence now depended on the possession of her soul -- until it could find a soul of its own. 

[!] the demon's hope - the demon began to collect souls, searching for the one that could possess it -- a perfect melding of mind and soul. the demon's originial hope of ressurecting the avon died when her body was destroyed and the demon was forced to claim a new host. the demon watched with curiosity as dragons shared the discovery of humans on earth with the people of aeirn. the demon fought in the defence of life and in support of the realization of creation against demons who preyed on the living or angels who viewed physical life as a threat to spiritual existence. the demon witnessed the destruction of aeirn, surviving the cataclysm and retreating to earth in a human host with a handful of other survivors. 

	their thoughts and feelings created the world they existed in, an unending dream that was difficult to control because it was shared. 
	in time, they learned how to manipulate their reality
	that reality became stable through the influence of their offspring, replicating the pattern of their host realm 
	the captive souls had evolved into the gods of the inner realm. 
	
		the inner gods took an active role in creating a haven for humanity, bringing the world of aeirn to life. 
		as in the outer realm, the physical processes of life imposed its natural order and eventually ended the age of creation. 
		the intimate participation of the inner gods continued though the first age of magic, a period of enlightenment that became tainted by ambition. 
		the ambitious gods were turned against each other by the belief that their power derived from a single source and was diminished by division.

	in the wasteland, time had no meaning, but once they approach the threshold of the realm, things pick up. 
	she is introduced to other eclipsed souls, the lost souls...
	instead of thinking of himself as a god, he and many others thought of themselves as exiles. 
	she learns they had all turned their back on the lure of becoming gods of the inner realm seeking a way back to the outer realm.

	where she came from, she was just a girl; here she could be a goddess.
	the host warns her that the inner gods would attempt to pull her into their ranks -- and intrigues. 
	she was in immediate danger because the demon was only vulnerable to attack through her. 
	many of the inner gods still sought absolute power in the realm through conquest of the demon. 
	while the demon possessed her, body and soul, each provided a direct link to the demon -- the true god of the realm. 

	desperate to exploit the opportunity she represented, the power-hungry blocked her access to the inner realm. 
	her body offered a direct, physical avenue of attack. 
	her soul -- or more accurately, her mind -- offered an easier, indirect avenue of attack. 
	tormenting her was an indirect way to torment and provoke the demon. 
	under this type of abuse, her exile was promising to become a form of hell. 

	her mentor had the knowledge and skill to restore the status quo by helping her reclaim her body and unseating the demon from her native realm. 
	he had been the victim of a plot to conquer the demon -- the second that he knew of.
	the original plot had been carried out against the demon's focus -- the soul claimed at the demon's original fall.

		the plot to draw the demon down where it could be confronted was engineered by one of the inner gods and an alliance of lost souls. 
		the objective was to summon the demon of the realm, conquer it and claim its dominion. 
		once in possession of a body within the domain, the demon would be vulnerable to attack by those who conspired to bring it down.
		the members of the cabal cooporated to create a situation to their advantage and then competed to exploit it. 

		the supporters of the conspiracy became adversaries.
		each seeking to dominate and devour the demon in the hopes of becoming the soul of creation
		each needing the help of others to make the demon vulnerable to such an assault. 
		this contest evolved into a war among the gods known as the purge. 

		the architects of the purge eventually identified the demon's focus and confronted her. 
		the problem was that none of them knew how this would affect them or the world they were in. 
			... her personal demon survived the anihilation of both souls by taking possession of one of the touched. 
		in the aftermath of the purge the unstable alliance of opportunistic rivals changed tactics.
		
	an inner god who had been a demonologist in the outer realm had conceived of a plan to attack the demon through its host. 
	the demonologist claimed that the attack would force the demon to turn its attention inward, allowing the man to regain possession of his body. 
	as soon as the demon entered the body he had manifested in its realm, it could be banished -- its link to him destroyed in the process. 

	in theory, the plot could be turned to her advantage, instead of drawing the demon down into the realm, draw it up to the edge of the abyss. 
	by provoking it from there, he believed he could force it to exchange places with her. 
	after the girl was restored, he would lure it into the abyss, in a race to regain possession of the body he had on earth.

the girl eclipses the boy - the host attacked through the girl, but the demon was too intelligent to be attacked the same way twice. the demon possessed the boy, leaving the former host in possession of the girl's male body. to save the girl, however, the boy embraced the demon and released the girl's soul, leaving the girl in possession of his female body. 

a goddess within - the boy, more of a tomboy following her experiences as a girl, or a goddess after merging with the demon, found herself trapped in the girl's mind -- along with the demon's adversary. the god created by the fusion of the demonic assassin and the banished wizard had clawed his way out of the abyss to find himself in the girl's mind.

the god within - it did not take the adversary long to realize that the girl was the future incarnation of the goddess the boy had become. to preserve his existence, the god had to ensure the goddess was reborn as the girl without revealing that the girl was her own mother, destined to die in an attack the god would have to engineer. first he would have to escape from her mind. 

the traumatic night - the rift opened when the girl fought to keep her soul from being ripped out by a demonic assassin that survived the battle her mother died in while trying to protect her. the demonic assassin was ripped from its host and cast into the abyss within her mind by the part of her psyche that had formerly been the demon of the realm. the demonic assassin was embraced by the soul of a wizard that had been banished to the abyss by the demon of the realm. the girl fell through the rift she opened during her struggle with the demonic assassin -- oblivious of the god that had been created in the depths of her unconsciousness. 


loose threads

a dual infection - the were half -- the girl and her mother were envisioned as something akin to witches -- in the oldest inspiration, natural psychics identified as aeirnthanes. due to an accident (around 17) when the girl was magically transformed into a tiger, she was branded with that ability. years later (around 21), she fought a were-tiger in tiger form and ended up infected with a more controllable version of the were-tiger curse.
 

discarded threads

the demon's host and the plot to create the ring of paradox - a man from earth who was possessed by the demon became involved in a plot to conquer the demon. the architects of the plot sought to use the man -- the demon's living host -- to capture the demon and harness its power. the man was led to believe the conspirators were trying to help him regain possession of his body and return to his life on earth. instead his soul was used to bind the demon within an enchanted ring. to complete the binding, the conspirators had to destroy the man before he could master the power of the ring. the man fought and the ring was lost when the man used the greed of the conspirators against them. this ring eventually makes its way into the boy's hands.

a plot - the rival that had pursued the boy, mistaking "her" for the girl, provided the perfect means. it was easy to provoke the frustrated rival into not taking "no" for an answer, prompting a lethal response from the girl. the god slipped from the shadow of the girl's mind into the corpse and waited until it had been disposed of to resurrect the body and claim it for his own. 

a pact - the adversary makes a pact with the rival, offering to save his life in exchange for the use of his body after the girl delivers a mortal blow to escape after the rival raped her. the adversary keeps the rival's body in stasis long enough stage the boy's death, then assumes the rival's identity to confront the authorities, convincing them that it must have been the boy who raped the girl, posing as her fiance and forcing her to kill him in self defense. the demon's former host counters by approaching the authorities, posing as the boy and telling them that the rival had been possessed by a demon; the demon raped the girl, survived her retaliation, and now plotted to exploit the rival's identity and engagement to do worse to her in the future. the authorities try to test the theory and discover that the rival is possessed, but not by a demon. the rival is determined to be the avatar of a god no one knew existed before he escapes custody. 

