Manuscript Excerpts
 
chapter
01	

A breeze teased the scent of new rain about the room. She knelt within the cozy sphere of illumination cast by an antique lamp on the low table. Apart from that, the old house was steeped in shadows. She was savoring the last bite of her meal as twilight deepened the evening sky. Setting the bowl down on the table her hand paused. She noticed the strange hesitation—the chopsticks in her fingers hovering at the rim of the bowl—as a sudden thrill darted up her spine to snarl at the nape of her neck. Purely out of habit, she disguised the betraying hesitation by deftly aligning the slender utensils in a chord intersecting ninety degrees of arc along the rim of the bowl. Rising from the cushion, she glided over to the sideboard, gathered tea settings for two, and fetched the pot from the hot plate. As she was setting the tray down, she heard the front door open and shut. A brief wind cut through the house, peppering her with droplets and dancing against the paddles of the wind chimes, conjuring a delicate rain of notes to welcome her unannounced visitor.
	“Phoenix?” he called softly from the shadows. He slipped out of his jacket and hung it on a hook inside the door. His footsteps approached from the foyer. “Am I interrupting?” he asked as he entered the room, pausing outside the fall of light.
	She shrugged, “I have remembered as much as I can stand. And then some.” He had lost a wife and lover when she lost her mother, she knew he understood. She met his eyes, even though they were obscured by shadow. “Did it really take this long to track me down, or did you hope I might come looking for you if you waited long enough before ‘finding’ me?” she asked, rhetorically. It surprised her that it came out sounding so bitter. She had no business making that kind of comment. This was the first time she had bothered to come home herself. She had been eleven years old when her mother died—when the trauma ignited her latent psionics and forced her to share her death. He had come with her when the discovery of her awakened abilities forced her relocation to a psionic reservation. She had no idea if he had ever paid their old home a visit, and she found herself hoping she had not forced him to it unprepared. When he offered no comment, she slipped away from the table and pulled a hot towel out of the warmer. Stepping back into the pool of light, she continued politely, “Please, come in, have a seat. I’m sure you have had a long walk. I have made tea, if you would like.”
	He sensed the change in her manner and accepted the invitation gracefully. Stepping forward, he accepted the towel from her outstretched hand, savoring the heat on his face and hands. He settled onto a cushion, one leg tucked in, the other stretched under the low table to spare his knees. She folded gracefully into an accustomed kneel and poured for them. He accepted his cup with quiet thanks, content for the moment to absorb another measure of warmth through his hands. 
	She sipped from her cup, peering at him through a veil of steam. He wore a dress-down uniform, which told her he was back on active duty. She had not expected that. From his insignia she discovered he had attained the rank of captain. It would be child’s play to sift his thoughts for the news he brought, but she had been too well trained to dare such a gross invasion of privacy. The same would not apply to surface thoughts, as they tended to invade her mind from all points—like a constant bath of light. Instead, she questioned him softly about his walk and the inconvenient timing of the downpour. He smiled, confessing to mixed ire and wonder at the elemental display. “I don’t mind. You start to miss the wind and rain after a couple of months of ship-board duty.” He gazed into the middle distance after that thought and then folded the towel in his lap with a sigh.
	“Which reminds me,” he added as his train of thought intersected the matter that had brought him, “I picked up your mail.” He looked at her with sudden sobriety. She held his eyes for a moment and then nodded slightly for him to continue. “Phoenix Ember Morgan,” he smiled, drawing the long envelope from the inside pocket of his tunic, “let me be the first to congratulate you.” she accepted the archaic document, breaking the wax seal and quickly scanning the text. “Naturally, I don’t know what it says, but I know how the Project works. They want you working for them as soon as possible, so they will have pushed to get you accepted into the Academy as soon after graduation as possible. I expect you leave as early as dawn tomorrow,” he stated. “I suspect you already knew this, though,” he added, giving the darkened room a glance. He held her eyes with his as he asked, “What did they give you?” He maintained eye contact as he finally took a sip of his tea.
	She took a deep breath, held it for a short count, and then said, “Command track, with an emphasis in Tactics. And you’re right, I ship out tomorrow. I can’t believe it. Eight years of freedom,” she sighed. A few years ago, she had been less than pleased to learn that, as a psionic, she was required to enlist in the psionic corps and serve a minimum of eight years in one of the military branches. At least if she wanted to earn her license to practice psionics outside of military or reservation jurisdiction. Phoenix needed that license. She did not care to think about the alternative. Her attitude changed when she was still in her first form at academy prep school. That was when the psi corps discovered that she was a full spectrum, class III active. Sparing seven thousand pages of technical language, that meant there was very little she could not do if she really put her mind to it. In a heartbeat she was drafted into the Avatar Program. She did not have a lot of positive things to say about that, so she did not even bother to try. By comparison, she considered the Navy to be Paradise. “I wonder if she still remember how to dream?” she murmured to herself. 
	Her father coughed, almost choking on his tea. Alexander Morgan understood the little comment far better than he should have. She blushed as she realized it. 
	She stared at him hard and asked, “I suppose you heard about that little scandal?” 
	Her blunt approach caught him off guard. He looked up at her, and again started coughing to hide his laughter. At least this time he did not have a mouthful of tea to complicate things. By the time he regained his composure, he still had not figured out a way to address it delicately. She assumed that he did indeed know what had happened. Neither of them needed to mention it, but the gist of it was simple. A person’s mind could play tricks on her, and during adolescence a girl could dream some pretty interesting dreams. Not that it was a problem, that sort of thing was perfectly natural. Of course she was a full spectrum psionic, so it should hardly be surprising that some of her dreams had taken on their own reality. Everyone who witnessed or found out about it had an opinion—weird, kinky, perverted, funny. On the other hand, her Project supervisors took the “man of her dreams” to be a sign that she had dangerously inadequate control over her powers. Aegis Security\Intelligence Agency, in charge of the Avatar Project, was not one of those agencies that uses words like ‘termination’ euphemistically. She got that message with perfect clarity. 
	Her thoughts must have appeared on her face. He clearly picked up on them. 
	“Phoenix—” he began, but he paused to reconsider, dabbing at his shirtfront with the towel. As he sopped up the puddles on the table, she poured him some more tea. “They’re just people,” he began again, “People make mistakes, and sometimes other people get hurt. Are you ever going to let it go? What do they have to do for you to forgive them?”
	She did not know how to answer. She do not think her father understood what she was upset about. Or maybe he understood too well. He had seen where her thoughts were leading. Her mother. Her death had awakened her to the true nature of the Avatar Project. She had come to terms with everything except the lies. Once she knew what was really going on, she realized what a brilliant solution the Avatar Project was to the problem of emerging psionics. Unfortunately, it was first necessary to discover that the life she had lived up to that point had been a carefully fabricated lie. Her mother had served in Navy uniform, but her commission had not been in the Navy any more than her father’s was. 
	Phoenix had been in her mind, in telepathic contact, when her mother died. She learned things at that moment which contradicted hundreds of assumptions she held dear about life. She was too aware of the truth when the government came in with the lies and cover-ups it used to soothe loved ones past the death of an operative. When she blew up over that, she wound up living on the reservation where she was suckered into another lie. The reservation had been perfect. It ought to have been, the whole society had been carefully developed as a way to control psionics—a cunningly crafted illusion that shattered as soon as she left the reservation to enter the academy prep school. 
	She wondered why it continued to bother her so much. 
	She could understand the government’s reasons for creating and maintaining an invisible service branch. The Psionic Corps’ primary purpose was to police psionics, and its affiliation with the military was mutually beneficial. Once the Psionic Corps had identified, tested and trained a psi, it turned her over to one of the three official service branches, and the military took responsibility for breaking her in and teaching her to play well with others. In the public mind, psionics was safe, a regulated byproduct of military augmentation. Would the common man feel safe around his psionic neighbor if he knew that the only thing holding her in check was the absolute conviction—instilled by her government—that the slightest abuse of her power would result in her instant and total annihilation?
	She could accept that. At least it was the truth. It was being lied to that she could not stand.
	That was why it was so hard to forgive them, because she knew that the lies had been justified. At that moment, she was sort of avoiding the point. Deep inside she could not forgive them because she had let their fully justifiable fear, their frighteningly logical reasons and terrifyingly ruthless conviction compel her to give up her dreams. If she could have admitted that, then she might have been able to face the fact that it was possible to give people too much power over her life. 
	“I can’t believe how long your hair has gotten,” he interrupted her reverie. She flushed slightly, wondering how long a silence had passed. She looked up at him, her hand automatically going up to stroke the braid. She gave a shy smile as she encountered the warmth of his gaze.  “I am glad you decided not to cut it,” he continued, seeing that he had her attention again. “It suits you that way. I remember your mother always wore her hair that way.”  
	“Really?” she echoed inquisitively. “I wasn’t sure. I think she taught it to me right here. I don’t really remember, it just sort of came back to me as I was sitting here,” she pointed out. “Do you miss her?” she asked.
	“There’s a lot of old memories tucked away in here,” he deflected. “You had a positive genius for getting into mischief,” he laughed. “There were days when you almost frightened your poor mother to death.” she opened her mouth to comment on that and he stared her down. “It’s a shame you waited so long to come back here,” he criticized with a level gaze. She bit her lip. He leaned back and closed his eyes as if in deep contemplation and went on, “Do you remember the time you ran away?’ he asked. She could hardly have forgotten, she had gotten myself into such a fit over something that she tore out of the house one evening and got thoroughly lost. She wandered the island for several days before she was found and brought back home. ”That was after you moved here from Ao’Ajea with your mother. She told me you had been a holy terror the entire trip. When I asked her what you were all worked up about she said it was over something you felt had been left behind. Do you even remember that time?”
	“Vaguely,” she murmured. She rubbed a thoughtful finger over her lips. “Why?” she prompted. “Is that the reason I ran away? To ‘go back to Ajea’ to get my—whatever it was—back?” she smiled and shook her head at the notion. “I guess she was a bit too young to grasp the concept of interstellar travel. Wish I could remember what it was that was so important. I wonder if it was worth the three weeks I spent in the hospital with pneumonia. Can you remember what it was?”
	He smiled and shook his head in apology. “Sorry, your mother didn’t say.” He fished a pack of cigarettes out of his pocket and looked to her for permission. She stood up and led him out onto porch that bounded the atrium. He lit one of the filthy things and took a couple of deep drags before resuming. “I am sure it meant the world to you. If it had been possible for you to walk to Ajea, I am certain you would have. Even when you were sick, it was hard to stop you. They had to keep you strapped down or you would slip out of bed and tear off again. You didn’t talk to your mother for months after you got better. If she were still with us, I am sure she would remember it like it was yesterday,” he fell silent for a few minutes, then turned to make eye contact. “The last time I saw her was right here in this garden. She was standing right there, where you are standing now. She was shipping out the next morning, but my leave had already ended, so I was just on my way out.” He took another deep pull on his cigarette, “We really didn’t have time to talk. I snuck up, tugged on her braid—”
	“She always hated it when you did that.” 
	“—and gave her a kiss—” he shot a glare at her. Leaning in, he squirted a burst of thought as subtext, «Yes she did, which was why she loved it. Your mother had a quick temper, and a tendency to cry when she was saying goodbye.» He had continued speaking without pause, “—then ran for the hills while she threw rocks after me.” she stared at him wide eyed at that. He winked, and gave a quick jerk on her braid.
	“I hope some of them hit,” she growled.
	He straightened again, turned a flat look in her direction and said, “I would have been thrilled if some of them hadn’t.” All at once she started laughing. She turned an incredulous look on him as he calmly puffed away. She ran her hands over her hair and gazed into the garden rain. She contemplated the past, and wondered what the future would bring. She had come to this place trying to figure out how to say goodbye to a ghost. All of a sudden she realized she had it backwards. Why had she waited so long before dropping by to say hello?

She sat up in stark terror. From a deep slumber she had snapped wide-awake. There was no mistaking the sensation of a psi-damping field going up. Years of training had her diving into motion. She did not know what the threat was, but she was certain that friendly visitors would not ambush her in her bed in the wee hours of the morning. Unfortunately, her reflexes delivered her right into the hands of a man shaped shadow. That really scared her. Even with a damper, she could sense a mind’s presence. The minds of her attackers were so disciplined that they almost merged into the shadows. 
	Strong arms clamped themselves around her, and she twisted like an otter to break free. 
	This was one of those moments when perception became acute and disjointed. A faint ambient light allowed her to make out the two men who had crept right up to the foot of her bed. At least that was the image she retained from that first instant of panic. As all of the following images collided in a jumble of movement, the strong smell of damp earth caught her attention—a breeze coming through the open window. A cold burn on her neck revealed the source of the mind-deadening field. She whipped around, prepared to make a break for it and barked out as loud as she could, “Lights!”
	As commanded, the room’s lights came up. The sudden brilliance blinded her assailants, but her own eyes, fresh from sleep, adjusted almost instantly. She kicked free from the first man, and threw herself out the window. She rolled forward in the air, then straightened. Her timing was a bit off, so she hit the ground below her window with too much forward momentum. She tucked her shoulder and rolled to her feet. Running for all she was worth, she turned her attention to the collar around her neck. If she was lucky—
	She did not explode. 
	That was just how her mind interpreted the pulse of the neural disruptor.
	When the insane lightning storm in her head finally subsided, she was lying limp on the ground between two extremely average looking men. The older one could have been somebody’s charming uncle, but from where she lay he was the personification of Death. There was no doubt who these two were. As she cursed herself, and wondered what she could have possibly done to bring the ASIA down on her, the elder man knelt beside her. He pressed his fingers to her wrist, and muttered softly, “Impressive. A lot better than I’ve seen in a long time.” When he finished checking her pulse and pupil response, he stood and stepped out of her line of sight. She discovered the lingering paralysis as she tried in vain to follow his movements.  
	Passing out was merciful.

Phoenix stared out the window, watching the world stream by through the tinted glass. Everything was gilded with crisp morning light. Her senses longed to embrace the sweet morning, but were filled instead with the musk and oil of beige leather upholstery, and the spice of men’s cologne. Her hands fisted in her lap, torturing the brocade fabric of her skirt. It was nearly identical to the one she had awakened wearing the morning of her capture. The morning after her graduation, and well past the time she should have been reporting to the port for her transfer shuttle. Not that she worried about failing to report for duty, like the clothes she wore, a cover story had surely been provided for this little operation. The three day long drive had given her plenty of time to dwell on the circumstances that had brought her to this disturbing pass. 
	She did not think she had done anything wrong, but since when did that matter? Questions had been raised in the past challenging her ability to control her power. She knew what would happen to her if those doubts were ever substantiated. She wondered who would notice if she never returned from this trip. Phoenix was an only child. Her father would, but they had said their good-byes and parted company with the understanding that their respective duties would keep their paths from crossing for some time to come.  
	Her eyes suddenly focused past the rush of scenery, fixating on the immobile clouds. The vast, unmoving sky only enhanced the sensation of a world in flux. She had been a fool to assume that she had seen the last of these terror trips. Phoenix wondered if she was being delivered to her own execution. With ancient eyes in a girl’s face, she cast a quick glance at the two men who had herded her all the way from her mother’s home on Puget Sound. Both of them remained unknown to her. In spite of a few days traveling in their company, she had not learned much more than their names. The names they used around her, anyway. She could feel them. Their awareness was a constant presence in her mind. Two deep pools, unmarred by the ripple of surface thoughts, that denied her any clues as to the purpose and personality of either man. 
	Nothing in their behavior gave her any clues to her fate. Not even their midnight ambush could be taken as an indication of threat. Aegis Security\Intelligence Agents never approached a psionic casually. If a psi had even the slightest warning, it was impossible to subdue her. If she was considered expendable, she would have been executed the instant she had been subdued. Having awakened, Phoenix naturally assumed they wanted something from her before eliminating her. Actually, that was always the case. If she had not been useful, no government would have allowed her to exist. The only thing she knew for sure was that somebody important had plans for her. 
	Phoenix had been in this position often enough to know the unspoken rules. Her present companions were more than an escort. Once they had rendered her helpless, they did take on the role of bodyguards. While she was still in academy prep, she could hardly go anywhere outside without their like. But, even though they protected her from the world at large, they were primarily there to protect the world at large from her. Unless she was told up front, she never knew where she was being taken until she arrived.
	She turned her gaze back to the racing scenery.

One of the men looked at her in the rearview mirror and said, in a flat voice, “We are almost there. Fifteen minutes in this traffic.”
	Phoenix’s eyes flicked up to meet his in the mirror. How odd that one of them should volunteer that kind of information. Vague as it was, the hint allowed her to guess where she was going. Looking away from him, Phoenix pressed for more information, “Why take me to this space port? If I’m being shipped off planet, wouldn’t it have been easier—not to mention quicker—to just go to Olympia? I mean Louisiana was really pretty and all, but Port of Savannah doesn’t offer anything better. Does it?” 
	“I’m afraid I couldn’t say,” he repeated himself for the hundredth time.
	Damn the man. He’s too good, she thought as her words failed to stir a betraying thought in him. Phoenix leaned her head back against the headrest of her seat and closed her eyes. She did not know if she wanted to sigh or moan. In the weeks approaching graduation she had begun feeling increasingly drained and lethargic. She had also experienced a heightened sensuality and almost constant state of arousal. Phoenix had fought off the symptoms of her strange fever during the last year of competition, but she had been forced to withdraw from the gymnastics tour at last when the strain shattered her control over her psi, bringing the ASIA down on her head. 
	Now that she thought about it, that had been the occasion of her last little joyride. Just once, she thought, I’d like to go somewhere without having to be bagged, tagged and dragged around by these goons. It would almost be worth being blind, to be able to go where I want—and do what I want! 
	Phoenix shifted her attention, testing the restraints of the car’s psi shielding. Once again, her consciousness was sucked into a horrible abyss as her probing thoughts were devoured. Her mind felt like flame guttering in a strong wind. The brighter she burned, the greater the gale blew, forever sucking energy out of her and turning it against her. She broke off in disgust. As her active fields waned the miasma cleared, allowing her passive mind to regain the deep and textured taste of things around her. 
	Phoenix perked up as she realized that the car had made the turn off for the international space port. Well, I made it this far, she thought. That doesn’t mean that this is really my destination. Gods, what if they really do want to take me off planet? Accidents are so easy to arrange in space…
	She bit her lip. Her apprehension was getting out of control. With an effort, she calmed herself.
	Within minutes, they were pulling into the customs gate. Sam, the driver, carried her papers, and turned them over to the customs agent along with his and his partner’s ID’s. She stared without moving through the whole affair, desperate to know what was waiting for her ahead.
	With my luck this will turn out to be a prank, Phoenix mused as the man waved them through. 
	The car leapt away from the customs gates, darted across traffic, and made the turn off for the Embassy District. The car reached it’s destination, turning into the round about fronting the stately building that dominated the end of the block. The black sedan prowled to a stop under the awning. A couple of the guards bracketing the entrance detached and came forward to check their credentials. One of them held the door as Phoenix got out. His eyes stared as the slanting rain of light struck golden highlights in her blood-red mane. With her hands clasped in front of her, she stepped away from the car towards the sun. She continued to drift away as one of the guards got in and drove off with the car. Finally the grip of the damping field slipped away. 
	She did not waste time thinking what a dangerous lapse of security that was. Instead she simply enjoyed it. Her mind opened like a morning bloom. The wings of her perception sprang out of her slender body and stretched in all directions to, over and around the horizons. 
	It felt like the first breath of fresh air after days spent suffocating in a box.
	The sphere of her physical senses shrank, eclipsed by a sphere of awareness that swiftly encompassed the Earth, reaching out to caress the Moon, and asserting itself in the heavens. For that moment she felt herself as a delicious, glittering mote of dust on the skin of the Earth, before the balance of her perspective shifted to focus once more on the physical expression of her self.
	Her keepers broke into her moment of respite and nudged her into the building where she could feel built in damping hit her like a blast in the face. Phoenix had finally stretched and refocused her mind. There was no way she would give up that asset once she had it back. Guarding her psi potential, she staggered through the perimeter of oblivion, her mind threatening to black out. Her escort grabbed her by the elbows and carried her through the defensive screen. Her mind ignited again on the far side of the entrance, but it was like a fusion fire encased in its magnetic bubble. Phoenix gasped for air, forcing the two agents to pause as she anchored herself in space. God, it’s been such a long time! I had forgotten what a shock it is to get through class three shielding. She geared down her thoughts, dimming the force and density of her attention until her awareness fit comfortably within its new limits. 
	She signaled her escort that she was collected again. Arthur Remington took her elbow, and Samuel Malthus fell in behind them, as Phoenix allowed herself to be guided through twists and turns of the building’s guts, to reach her destination. They stopped in front of an innocuous looking door. Arthur knocked on the paneled wood. Phoenix tried to see what the office held for her, but she could not reach through the walls. A sure sign that her contact was invested within. The door opened and Arthur motioned her through. Phoenix steeled herself to cross the shielded threshold. Pressing through the membrane of artificial apathy, Phoenix surfaced on the other side. Once again, she was forced to reign in her field of perception. 
	Before she could take in the identities of the men in the room, one of them greeted her, “Good morning, Phoenix. It is nice to see you again.” Phoenix looked over the small group. 
	All three of them stood as she approached. She recognized them at once. The one who had spoken was Mark Dreyfus, the Imperial Liaison for the Psionic Reservation Compact. Dreyfus made the obligatory round of introductions. Next to him was Martin Craig, Director of Research and Development for the Avatar Project, which once had its main research facilities on Vancouver Island. Across from Craig was Chadwick Powers, Director of the Psionic Control Division of the Solar Authority. Phoenix had not seen Dreyfus since the first week after her mother’s death. Craig had been present throughout the tragedy. Powers was a man she had only seen on the worst days of her life. A sick sensation rolled within her. The sight of these three men brought the memory of her mother’s death unbearably close to the surface.
	She hid her reaction and greeted each of them in turn. Dreyfus gestured for her to take a seat.
	“It’s been a long time Miss Morgan,” spoke Director Powers. 
	Phoenix gave a slight nod as she settled stiffly into the chair. She sat erect, perched almost on the edge of her seat as if afraid to commit her body to its soft, engulfing embrace. She met their eyes, for the moment unwilling to speak. It was amazing, she felt—as she absorbed the atmosphere of the room, that such a sense of age and dignity had been worked into the furnishings of the office. Tapestry curtains cut the morning light into a few slender shafts, slanted across the deeply shadowed interior. Hand worked oriental rugs blanketed the dark, hardwood floor. Richly sculpted mahogany furnishings cluttered the room, giving it a cozy closeness. Books covered the walls—heavy, leather bound texts, filled with the distilled essence of thousands of years of wisdom. 
	Phoenix fussed with her skirt, before finally folding her hands together on top of her knees, and looking again at Director Powers. The girl was seated right in the fall of light from the centermost tier of windows. Phoenix’s face, hair and hands glowed from within the muting greys of her suit-dress. The rich, musty aroma of a cigar incensed the sitting area. Powers sucked on the thick pug, watching her carefully.
	“No doubt you are wondering why your trip to the Academy was pre-empted,” Dreyfus opened, with a wry smile. “Under normal circumstances, we would have refrained from interfering in your admission to the Academy. In this instance, however, it was impossible.“ He cleared his throat, and continued, “Before I go on with that, let me first assure you, your admission has not been jeopardized. Everything is on hold, but you will be able to resume your enrollment without penalty when the Aegis no longer needs your immediate services.” When he paused and looked at her, she gestured for him to go on.
	“Your mother,” he began, “performed a number of important functions as part of her contract with the Aegis. The most sensitive of which most people remained totally unaware of.”  

 work in progress 
	“Your doctor says you’ve made remarkable progress,” he said slowly, examining the smoldering cherry, “For years, mind you, you’ve been making remarkable progress, even considering what we’ve invested in rehabilitating you.” He looked at the two other men, adding, “I truly do hope you have yourself put back together. We cannot wait any longer, I’m afraid.”
	It was painful to be reminded that she was still not fully recovered from the trauma. It was frightening to have her recovery questioned. There was something particularly alarming about those remarks coming from this man. Her rehabilitation had never been his concern. He had actually been something of a detriment to her recovery from her mother’s death, investigating the first manifestation of her psionic potential. 
	Dreyfus spoke, drawing her attention away from Powers. “We have done everything in our power to give you the time you needed to heal, Phoenix. I admit I can barely fathom what you suffered, and I respect your pain.” He smoothed a crease in his pants, looking down at his hand before looking her in the eye. “Like Director Powers, I hope that it has been enough.”
										
 “We are in a desperate situation and your help is essential to being able to take the right action. I have to ask, are you ready to come on board? Are you ready to serve the Aegis now?”
										
	Phoenix took a deep breath. The sensation of space constricting around her, as the damping field pulled apart the edges of her attention, numbed her thoughts. 

She really did not know what he was asking, the surface of his mind was blurred by the cotton threading into her mind. “Do I take that question at face value?” she asked. “I suppose if you are asking me to go back to ISP, I can give it my best shot. I have been learning new skills. I would prefer to continue to pursue the medical applications of my abilities. That training has played a large part in my own healing. I do not want to go back to what I was doing before. It is not the work, but the associations are so strong...” her voice trembled for a moment, before she got it back under control. “I’m sorry. Going back to ISP is not going to let me get over it.” She put a finger to the inner corner of her eye.
	Dreyfus and Powers averted their eyes, but Craig stared at her intently. He had been there when she had come apart at the seams. He had witnessed with his own eyes as her mind lashed out in grief and tore apart the building around her, and the ten years worth of work it had contained. A slow, agonizingly tortured explosion as she tried to push the world away from her to escape the madness of her pain. Not a living soul had been harmed by her gentle devastation, but concrete and steel had been twisted and fused into monstrous contortions. A nightmare landscape which he had seen in his own troubled dreams far too many times in the six years hence. No one had known what had happened, they had to infer from the last words she had relayed from her mother. 
	It had been a year before her mind had unclenched from the death grip on her soul. It had been a year until that awful suspicion could be confirmed. The debriefing had put her back into deep withdrawal and resulted in the strangest suicide watch he had ever heard of. It frightened him to his core to see that pain still simmering behind her eyes as he stared at her. It frightened him more as he considered what they had met here to demand of her. Suddenly she looked at him and her words stabbed him to the quick.
	“But, you didn’t bring me here to ask me to come back to ISP, Director Craig,” she said to him. Good Lord in Heaven! he thought before choking off all surface thought. Her next words suggested that perhaps she had not been eavesdropping. “You could have asked that when I saw you in Oregon. Why am I here? I am not a child any longer, I understand that these are dangerous times, filled with dangerous minds. What is it you’re asking me to do?”
	“Perhaps the situation should be explained to you first,” Dreyfus said, cutting off Craig’s undoubtedly hasty response. He cleared his throat and settled himself to face her more comfortably. “Phoenix, my dear, your case has been a complex and delicate problem for many good people who work for me. We did everything we could to ensure that you could be made sound in mind and in body in the most efficient space of time possible. If things had been other than what they are, you would never have been told what I am about to tell you except in response to your own request. 
	“For the past six years you have been out of the loop,” he pointed out. “We saw no reason to trouble you with this information. Keeping you abreast of developments following the disaster which forced your breakdown would have been distressing and cruel to you.”
	Phoenix was biting her lip, trying not to jump to any conclusions. Willing herself not to read the worst into this careful infusion of information. Drayfus cleared his throat and went on, “Shortly after you first told us what happened to the Adventure, we noticed that certain explorers had failed to make their return dates. But space is deep and communication is difficult at best. There could be any number of reasons why these ships should be delayed, so we had to wait. Soon other ships turned up missing and other ships were sent out to investigate. In the space of five years we have lost thirteen ships to unknown causes. We had no clues as to their fates and feared the worst. One week ago, a ship returned to Earth carrying a survivor from one of those ships. She was the pilot of the Intrepid. Whatever she experienced out there, it catalyzed her psionic potential, enabling her to escape from her ship as it was destroyed, and survive for months in the void. According to her account, her ship was attacked while coming to the aid of another explorer. Aside from that, her account verifies yours in every detail with regard to the hostile contact which she saw vaporize her ship.
	“Phoenix,” he caught her eyes and held them, “we have been able to compare the course data filed on each of the missing ships. Accounting for their intended positions in time and space, and checked against a stretch of space approaching the core systems of the Aegis from the vicinity where Adventure was destroyed, there is a window of opportunity in each case where interception by the contact was possible.” There was a moment of silence before he asked, “You do understand what this means, don’t you?”
	Phoenix’s hand had risen to her mouth, and pain pulled at the corner of her eyes. There was a fevered light in her face as the implications roared through her mind. “It’s back-tracking. It’s looking for us,” she said in a stricken whisper.
	“The young woman who was recovered has gone into shock and withdrawal from her ordeal,” Powers, announced, catching her attention. “We have only the barest details of her experience from an account she gave to her rescuers before she withdrew into herself. It could take her years to recover. There is no one, except for you, who can relate to her experience. Your studies in psionic medicine only emphasize the decision we have made to assign you to her rehabilitation.”
	Phoenix looked at them all and said firmly, “You can count on me.”
	“Thank you,” Dreyfus said emphatically, and then he took a deep breath. “However, there is another thing we must stress,” he pointed out. Phoenix raised an eyebrow questioningly. “Without any question, the world has to be told. There is no way the disappearance of fourteen ships and several thousand astronauts can be kept from the public. Even at risk of starting a panic, it would be unspeakable to hide the fact that a hostile and alien civilization has declared war on the human race.” Phoenix nodded. It only made sense. “That is why you had to be brought here today,” he finished. He handed her a binder. “This contains the details of the presentation we want you to make to the media,” he explained.
	“Me?!” she retorted. She flipped the binder open and scanned the pages within, hand at her throat. As she saw the gist of it, her throat clenched strangling her words, “No. No, no, no. I can’t do this.” She tried to give the binder back.
	“Phoenix, please. Who else? You are the only ‘eye witness’ available. You are the obvious choice. You are the only choice,” he stressed, refusing to take the document back. He sighed heavily as she stared at him full of fear and anger. “Do you think this was an easy decision for us? Anyone can say that this horrible thing has happened, but only you can make them understand what this horrible thing is! Only you can tell them what really  happened!”
	That horrible thing lived in her memory, forever waiting to accuse her of her part in it. Phoenix’s head swam as it hit her. It clawed inside her guts, It gnawed at the depths of her soul, and the very idea of opening that door in the back of her mind forced a cry of pure animal pain from her throat. Without thought, instinct kicked in. Before the startled eyes of the three men, her body unraveled and twisted out of existence. 

In another room down the hall, there had been a moment’s warning as the sound of her cry penetrated the barrier her mind could not. The two men charged with the protection and restraint of the young psionic leapt to the control panels. Arthur barked at once, “Block her damn it!” His younger partner slammed his hand down on the panic button, forcing the damping field to fill in and flood the interior of the office with it’s mind deadening effect.
	“She’s going to rabbit,” he said as the system adjusted to execute the damping flood. He had barely begun to draw another breath when he saw her form disintegrate on camera. He felt a moment of alarm at the thought of what might happen if the field interrupted her power while she was discorporeal. He watched the graphic model of the field filling in with one eye as the other kept tabs on the real world effect it should be having. 
	He breathed a sigh of relief as he saw her body congealing, twisting together out of thin air. With the combined images of the field model and the live feed from the office, it looked for all the world as if Phoenix’s body was being squeezed out of nowhere by the closing fist of the damping field. He quickly announced, “I’ve got her.”
	Arthur glanced at the screens while speaking into his sleeve cuff, “OK, the genie is back in the bottle, tell Control.” Arthur stepped to the door as security rushed up in response to the panic button alarm. While Arthur conferred with the resident security and control agents, Malthus was staring at the status readouts on the field.
	“Damn,” he breathed, watching the numbers flicker on the screen. “Look at this reading,” he said in a louder voice, aimed at his partner. He saw the numbers rising as the field array reported the absorbed power readings. His eyes dropped from the power conversion in kilowatts to the force conversion in newtons. To himself he silently prayed, “God, this better hold.”
	Arthur came back from the door and laid a hand on his shoulder. “We’ve got a second perimeter around the building,” he reminded Malthus, having overheard the younger man’s last remark.
	Malthus gave a nod. His eyes were glued to the flickering numbers. They were still climbing, all of a sudden the count blanked and then came back in a different display format. “God damn!” he exclaimed as he recognized the new scale. Geometric growth. His jaw went slack. “Look at this reading!” he gasped grabbing his partner by the sleeve. He remembered a story he had heard once about doubling grains of rice on the squares of a chess board. He watched the numbers climbing past a hundred iterations of doubling and still it kept rising. The only difference was that the number increased with a slow, menacingly relentless impetus.
	Arthur squeezed his shoulder, saying gently and firmly, “Just do your job, Sam.”
	Malthus could not take his eyes from the screen, wiping a faint sheen of sweat with the back of his hand while his mind reeled. He couldn’t even conceive of the power that was being siphoned away from her mind. In a desperate and pained voice he cried, “Jesus H. Christ, she’s just a kid!”
	Arthur Remington moved his hand to grasp the back of Malthus’s neck. “Just stow it, Sam,” he ordered giving his partner a tight little shake. The younger man leaned back and tried to shake off the shock. He knew better. He had been told not to try to imagine the power some actives could tap. He shuddered, when he noticed that the numbers had peaked and begun to regress. Over seven hundred iterations, geometric doubling, from a one newton grain of rice. 

In the office, Phoenix lay crumpled on the floor. Her body was shuddering as her mind pulled out of oblivion. A degree of control returned to her as she forced herself to sit up. Her animal reflex to escape had been unable to overcome the damping field, buying time for her wits to grasp the situation. She struggled to deal with the terror still awake inside herself as she dragged herself to her feet. The men were looking at her with utterly blank expressions. Phoenix took a deep, ragged breath as she turned to face them again. “You have no idea what you are asking me to do,” she panted. Her hands fisted as she tried to master the shaking that still tortured her body. “I can’t do it.”
	“You have to. Do you think this is easy for any of us?” Powers demanded. “Do you realize the risk we face? For almost a thousand years, we have denied the existence of active psionics while using psionic actives to build everything our future as a species depends on! Everything was fine when we simply evaded the truth. Do you think we want to reveal the existence of people like you to the Aegis at large? Do you realize how much effort has gone into trying to prevent this stage of transition in human evolution from exploding into the greatest conflict man kind has ever conceived of? Do you really understand the terrible thing we are really asking you to do?” he challenged fiercely.
	Phoenix looked at him and her mouth worked as she tried to find a response.
	Craig interrupted her before she could, declaring, “Of course you don’t understand! You are so caught up in your personal feelings that you haven’t even thought of it! How do we know about the aliens?” he challenged her. “Do we have a single piece of hard evidence? Do we have a single photo, a single sensor reading? Do we have any communication logs from the ships that have disappeared? Is there anything we can tell the people, to warn them of the danger, that does not come solely out of your head?! You are the evidence. Not just what you know, but what you are!”
	“Phoenix,” Dreyfus stood and came up to her, taking her hands in his. “The problem we face is not as simple as it sounds. Yes, the world has to be told. Yes, something has to be done. But we have no hope if we can’t make the people believe what we know. We are extremely vulnerable here on Earth. But we also have a problem. There are more psionic actives alive today than we can possibly hope to hide from discovery. There is no way that the reservation system can keep up with the growth of your population. There are more people aware of your secret now than we can hope to regulate, just in the projects and control agencies alone. We had plans to deal with this problem, but in light of this new threat, there is no time to carry through with them, we have to devote so much of our resources to answering that threat, that the psionic situation will get completely out of control. Even if we could doctor up some evidence, even if we could manipulate the media to get the warning out, we dare not lie in light of the fact that what we are hiding from the population at large represents at least as great a threat to human survival as what ever we have stumbled across out there.” 
	“But why does it have to be me?” she demanded. “God, there has to be at least a dozen people who went into me and dug out that memory! There are thousands of people who can prove that telepathy is real. Why ask me to tear myself apart over this just when I can finally make it through a day without falling apart?”
	“I understand that this is going to be hard for you, but listen to me, Phoenix,” Dreyfus pleaded, while Powers and Craig scowled at her. “We have faced the necessity of telling the world about the disaster, we have accepted the necessity of revealing the source of our knowledge of the hostile contact. We still face the necessity of controlling the consequences of this disclosure. There are too many sides to this issue that have to be explained. You have the experience with the technology and understand its capabilities and the nature of its development. You are trained in dealing with the latent population, and are more fully aware of the reality of universe at large than most of your peers. You, by yourself, can meet the needs of this situation and represent the least over-all exposure we can hope to manage.”
	“But I don’t want to be exposed! God, all I’ve ever wanted was to be able to go through life like any normal person! You can’t do this to me!” she cried.
	“Phoenix, you’ve got to face this down,” Dreyfus said. “You have to be strong enough to look it in the eye. If you can’t face it without breaking down, you will never stop being broken. You will remain crippled for the rest of your life! Stop running away from yourself!”
	“You are not giving me any choice!” she accused. “Let me face it on my own, in my own way. You just...” she choked, “you just don’t have any idea what you are asking me.”
	“You are right, Phoenix,” Craig said suddenly, “You don’t have any choice. None of us have a choice. There is only one person who is qualified to stand at the front of this issue: The person who can represent the truth! Since we have to give the world the truth, we have no choice but to give it you. You have had years to resolve this. Just consider this a test of your resolve, and the proof of your rehabilitation.”
	Phoenix suddenly stopped trembling. She looked away from Dreyfus to study Craig and Powers. She didn’t need to read their minds to recognize the threat behind those words. There was a kind of approval for Craig’s declaration in Powers’ face. Phoenix was well aware of the fate of an unstable psi. The defeated look in Dreyfus’s eyes only added to the sense of betrayal, as she realized that for all of his warmth and support, he too stood above her. A carrot in one hand did not disguise the stick in the other. It took this cold slap to awaken at last to the reality she had denied for so long. With a sudden calm, she leaned down and picked up the binder from where it had dropped out of her disintegrating hands only moments ago. She had nothing to say to any of these men who would never, could never be her friends. As she slammed out of the office the men looked at each other and nursed their isolated thoughts.
 work in progress 

	
chapter
02	

She made no comment when her keepers came in and rousted her out of the complex and back into the car. Nor did she complain when they took her to a safe house nearby. The afternoon sky did not tempt her to unfold the wings of her mind, as she did not trust her power at the moment. She meekly endured the quick tour of the grounds and her apartment. It was another modern building built in an intentionally old style. The grand furnishings did not impress her through her numbness and the late lunch her polite hosts set out for her was an ordeal. But the food was necessary, so she endured.
	As soon as she could, she excused herself to find a little time and space to put herself back together. Her eyes roved aimlessly over the small clutch of rooms as she secured the door. A relatively open sitting room opened out directly ahead on an enclosed garden. Off on either hand were bedrooms, and further along on the right, what appeared to be a miniature library or study. The floorboards were of an ash-blond wood that seemed rich with color in the pristine white swath of carpets, upholstery and curtains. Tucked in around the study was a kitchenette and a breakfast room walled in glittering panes of glass. All in all, a very pleasant accommodation, drawn right out of the pages of some architectural digest.
	Phoenix passed through the kitchenette into the breakfast solar, and allowed the sun to wash over her. In her dress, she was a dark apparition all too hungry for the light. With great effort she tried to coax some feeling out of her battered spirit. She was raw from reliving that terrible day. She could not bear the unrelieved suffering and the pall it still cast over her life. If all this time had not allowed her to overcome it, then it was time she finally adapted to it. Although it was not easy, she struggled to put the matter into perspective.
	Phoenix held herself. The solidity of meat and bone stood in sharp contrast to the fragile feeling within. Like delicate crystal dropped on the floor, which miraculously rebounds without shattering, she still resonated from the shock. Forced once again to share one of the most painful moment in her life, Phoenix felt rage. Not the bitter self-devouring rage that had eaten her for most of the past six years, but a naked, healing, hateful anger rising from her thighs, gut and back. The emotion had carried her through the pain. It had taken her weakness and made it into sustaining strength. But it was still rage, and that was what she was afraid of. As Phoenix fingered the beveled panes, she admitted that this was certainly not the last time she would be forced to confront it. 
	She did not see anger as her salvation. It had served a purpose, burning away the emotional block between herself and the outside world. It had opened her eyes. But she still could not see unless she let it go. It sharpened her pain to look at it, but she could see it now. In a terrible way her agony was selfish. There were thousands of mothers, fathers, siblings and children who had felt the amputation of a loved one as intensely—if not as intimately—as Phoenix did. The dying moment that still burned an instant away in her thoughts was just one tiny part of the human cost of Earth’s third encounter with an alien intelligence.
	If she had any sense, she would just let it go. Forget about it and go on. The truth she still clung to was a punishing lover. Phoenix turned her back on the manicured side yard, with its high, ivy covered walls, lush green carpet of grass and proud oak trees. 
	Good advice. She couldn’t just brush it all away, though. 
	Not while she maintained the lie by omission. Perhaps if she had ever been able to speak of it, it might have dislodged the clot in her soul. How many times has she told Dreyfus, Powers and Craig that they didn’t know what they were asking? Of course they did not know! To reveal what that last instant had done to her—or what she had done at that last moment—was simply too terrifying. Her guilt had already condemned her within. To seed suspicion of that guilt in others, to face the growth of their condemnation as well, was beyond contemplation. She covered her face with her hands. Oh! When they had guarded her against suicide, she had thought, surely they must know! Eventually she had realized that, while they had detected her suicidal thoughts, they had not uncovered what had given birth to them. Phoenix’s head snapped up, as she suddenly thrust those thoughts out of her head. She was not as far out of the woods as she had thought. It was so easy to slide back. She tried not to think about it.
	She didn’t want to go through it all again.
	As her fingers nervously rubbed against each other, she noticed the stain of makeup her tears had made wet again. The lady’s words suddenly came back to her, be sure to come back in here afterwards and get this crap cleaned off. It would be a shame to ruin your complexion by forgetting. Phoenix’s lips gave a wry twist. She did not fear for her complexion, but there was no denying that she had forgotten. She wondered how long it had been on, but her sense of time was distorted. It didn’t matter, at least it gave her something to do besides thinking. With graceful purpose, her legs carried her back down the short hall, through the sitting room and into the bedroom. She delighted in peeling out of her dress, and throwing herself into a long, hot, steaming shower.
	She buried her troubled thoughts in the pleasant sensations of heat, and the fluid rush over her flesh. The bathroom was a pleasant contrast to the bleached apartment. Its walls, floor, washbasins—even the shower—carved from black marble. In the huge, sunken oval, Phoenix was tempted to ignore the multiple fixtures that sprayed converging streams of steaming water, in favor of a long, sinful soak in that vast basin. But the caressing thrill of the shower was a more stimulating antidote for depression. The sting and tickle of the hard spray, the endless hot caress as the coursing fluid clung to her curves, aroused her, teased the innocent passion of the senses. 
	Phoenix slid her fingers slowly down her front. From her throat, they glided over her breasts, off her ribs and along her belly. Her hands cupped the curves of bone separating her abdomen from her hips, as they traversed the upper corners of her pelvis. Her arms straightened to their limit, and her palms settled on the fronts of her thighs, thumbs pointing inward at her pubic arch. She smiled faintly. Her healing had started in a shower. In long dark days, when she had lost the ability to love herself, her body’s flowering into womanhood had seduced her. The strange yearnings, the wonderful feelings that awoke under her accidental touch, tricked her into taking an interest in life. Her right hand slid inward, brushing across the tops of tight, damp curls. It had happened innocently enough at first. That first stirring, that faint thrill that translated itself to something deep within—the sensation of touch was so intoxicatingly now. It had no sense of past. It was always new. 
	She had not understood what she was feeling. Her mother taught her about the mysteries of sex before her death, but Phoenix had not really understood the hunger at the root of the issue. The trauma she had suffered—and the maimed telepathic reflex it had caused—made sex inaccessible before her body was ready for her to explore her passions. Her fingers curled in, confining her sex without making contact. It had been easy to assume that, unable to bear the touch of another, her sexuality could not be touched. Maybe there had even been an inhibition, an acquired aversion to the idea of consciously touching herself. 
	The water flowing down her body, ran along her arm, deflecting from her cupped fingers to stream between her legs. Licking at her lips. Her eyes closed. The flesh had so many shades of sensitivity, a spectrum of sensualities. It was not so strange, given that a body instinctively savored any new flavor. She had not thought about it, she had simply become mesmerized by the complexity and depth of the mystery she had stumbled across in herself. Once she had discovered the unbounded pleasure that was within her grasp—that was so easy to give herself in contrast the pain she had so ruthlessly inflicted on herself for so long—Phoenix had found a way out. Locked long into self hatred, suddenly she had release. The abandonment of passion. A kind of momentary selflessness. A remove from which she could finally see herself, hurt and bleeding. 
	In a moment of detachment, she felt compassion for that wounded soul. She recognized a need to heal—to be healed. What difference did it make that the person who needed her love and support was also herself? What good did it do to judge herself as she slowly taught herself how to make love to herself? Wasn’t it worth it when she was finally able to respond to that compassion? Was it so strange to fall in love with oneself?
	Did it make her more or less whole?
	As she freed her hands to explore, she chose not to answer. Her fingers dipped across the threshold and her hunger stirred awake. Her telekinesis unfolded as trust in herself returned. Through her mind she became her own invisible lover, never wholly understanding the depths in herself which she tapped to encompass this strange embrace. Phoenix simply accepted it, unconcerned by the paradox of her polarized unity. Awed that she could feel love directed at her from a remote part of herself. So honest and uncomplicated, she could not doubt its sincerity, even as she struggled to understand why she deserved it. The dance itself exceeded her grasp, as she knew herself in both active and passive modes of this lovemaking. She knew she was doing this to herself. And yet she strove to elicit responses from her body, as if it were some beloved other person. And yet, she felt delightfully vulnerable to the teasing, probing, ecstatic touch of this worshipful lover. She was utterly lost and it was wonderful. 
	Above all, what she could see, so clear within her surrender, assured her heart. She could see the grief that was replacing self hatred. Her terrible, psychic cancer had gone into remission. But only fitfully. The hard cyst was being eroded away. The poisons and debris were finally cycling out of her spirit, as the horrible, self-inflicted wound prepared to close. But, she was still afraid. She knew how very little it would take to wake up that devouring mass. So, she gave herself up to the licking of the water and the comfort of her hands and telekinesis.
	It was strange, but she could accept, in spite of all the pain, in spite of how deeply she hated herself for unspeakable reasons, she did love herself. Not a selfish love, for she would only despise herself more for narcissism. A selfless love. An abandonment to something wondrous and mysterious, which could swallow any suffering. Phoenix sensed it, but she really could not explain it. It was not something she needed to know in words. She carefully kept her mind neutral—engaged, but not geared for thought.
	Held in the grip of her mind, in the grip of her senses, Phoenix dissolved in exquisite torture. Impaled on the selfless gift, slowly mounting into shudders of release. When she was spent, she held her shaking, glowing body telekinetically erect. She was at once removed from and restored to herself. She barely noticed that the water had long since gone cold, even as it rinsed away the traces of her passion. As she stepped out of the spray and sluiced water from her skin, she could not help appraising the image in the mirror. At first the mirror revealed to her only a mask.
	Her eyes drank in both face and body. Very plain, lacking in character, and almost too symmetrical to live in, she criticized at a glance. There was a sculpted perfection to her body which was disturbing. Mathematically, her form seemed ideal. Elegant in its simplicity, but like a mannequin, somehow artificial and enigmatic. She did not believe herself to be beautiful, but she could admit to herself that at least she was well made. Long of limb and firm of muscle, she was a lean and healthy animal. She smiled at that thought. How appropriate, like some perfect camouflage, so intricate in its attention to detail that it cannot help but reveal that the person is really only some animal in disguise! She shook her head wryly. It did not matter, beauty and humanity were illusions she did not understand well enough to wear. She was content to take satisfaction in her body by knowing that, as a vehicle to life’s experiences, it was well suited to her tastes.
	Perhaps it was a side effect of her self healing. She had developed a sense of pride in her body, but she was a pale reflection of Ember. Phoenix did not understand that particular mystery. On her mother the same features had been exotically beautiful, while on her they just seemed somehow unfinished. Her body had matured, and in it she had received a legacy from her mother she did not know how to deal with. She took after her so well that any reflection brought her back to her.
	In spite of herself, she could not avoid confronting herself—the ghosts of herself. It always caught her unaware, she found herself trapped by the eyes in the mirror and for a moment she would forget. The mirror became an open window, and Phoenix saw a young woman of sensuous line and curve. Damp, her hair was the color of a brooding coal. She was staring at her through opalescent, dove gray eyes. Phoenix dropped her gaze and watched her brush beads of moisture off of her skin. Her flesh was translucent and pale, like something carved from moonstone or mother of pearl.
	As she looked at her, her mother gave her a comforting smile. She looked so sad, so alone, and Phoenix wished so much she had not died! She felt a sudden stab. As Ember picked up her thoughts, her expression turned to worry and deep compassion. Caught in the illusion, her defenses were down and Phoenix lost her grip on what she had been holding off. She reeled back as the memories unfolded. As Phoenix’s mind flashed back to Ember’s death, her mother’s face turned away in agony.
	The last coherent moment returned to her. The bridge of the Adventure slumping around her in the awesome heat of the alien’s presence. The monster, wearing her own face, was shaking off her one desperate blow and focusing its power for the coup de grace. For a moment she held herself in a final embrace and then she felt the searing orgasm of death as everything that was her—her mother—was annihilated in the flesh.
	She felt her—her mother’s?—last thoughts shifting up into the interface and tried to hold herself together. She had been one mind existing in two bodies when she—her mother—died. But the horror did not end with death. After the shock wore off she realized she still had an anchor back to reality. A bridge across which she could retreat and survive. Phoenix opened her eyes, and they could not completely register the dark marble forms of the bathroom. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw... 
	Her mind recoiled from the paradox.
	At a second glance, the painful illusion shattered. Not her other self. Her reflection. She stared into the glass until the ache was bearable. Once again, she faced the most difficult question in her—Ember’s? Phoenix’s?—life: who am I? In her mind she was her own daughter. In her memory she was her own mother. She held onto her gaze until she had regained her sense of identity. A mother and a daughter died that day, and whatever she was had been born from the ashes. 
	A wave of self hatred thrashed in her soul. The torment of a mother at realizing that she had devoured her only daughter to survive. The angst of a daughter who knew that, in desperation, and out of inexperience, she had consumed the one person she loved rather than let her go. A mind polarized by guilt, each side trying to save the other by taking the blame. Only the love between and underlying her shattered parts held her together. If she could just find a way to resolve the unbearable guilt! If there were just some way to absolve her soul! Her hands fisted. If only I could trust anyone enough to talk about it.
	At that thought she managed to escape from the cancer in her soul. Trust. That was the second casualty of the whole ordeal. If experiencing the death of her mother had not been bad enough by itself, the horrible union of their minds also destroyed her childhood. The truth about psionic research, the government cover-up, the use of psionic ability by the government to develop technology for the exploration of space and all the other experiences and memories of her mother’s life had exploded through her mind at the instant of her death light years away.
	All during the long days when she tried to shut the world out, those memories had  torn her apart. While her mind had reeled, unable to find any foundation in the conflicting storm of thoughts, ideas and emotions, these bits of information warred with each other. The death trauma unhinged the part of her that identified itself as Ember, while the revelations of Ember’s unguarded mind shredded every single illusion on which her identity as Phoenix was founded. Their separate and inescapably fused personalities resonated with a destructive feedback. As love was warped by horror and guilt, and sanity gave way to perverse madness, the only clear and focused emotion which she had been capable of was rage. 
	She could not deal with what she learned in any other way. There were all of those pieces, but nothing of either identity had been able to pull any of those pieces together. Her minds had been too much alike at their cores. In essence, at the most important level, there was no way for them to tell each other apart. So, neither could assert itself. The flawless way mother and daughter fit together had turned against them when there had suddenly been no objective way to separate them from each other. It finally became a question of what she had to be to go on. The outrage of discovering the lies and deceits perpetrated by the Psionic Reservation and Research Project system became an obsession. As the pieces came together, the rage grew. 
	That was where her resurrection began. She fed on the loss and hurt. Restoring her entire childhood with the added perspective of truth. She reclaimed the happiness while acquiring an anguish for an innocence that had been destroyed. In recreating everything she gained a wounded appreciation for it all. They had created an ideal place for her to grow up—far better than the civilian world outside it. They had given her a perfect childhood and it had turned out to be a carefully crafted lie. She even had to share the guilt, since as her mother, she had gone along with it all.
	Among the terrible secrets she never suspected were hidden in her mind, which she discovered as she rebuilt it, was that one of her responsibilities as Ember was to destroy herself as Phoenix, should she ever prove mentally unstable; perversely inclined toward violent, or abusive behavior. Angel of wrath that she had become, this served as a warning that surely saved her life by forcing her to temper the rage at her heart.
	She found it amazing that she, or any other child on the reservation, survived growing up, in light of that discovery. Children could be so cruel, and it did not seem possible that she or her peers had been innocent of juvenile malice. It said something about the effectiveness of the cultural conditioning which had been orchestrated by the reservation planners. People like Mark Dreyfus had invented the world she had grown up in. They had dictated the styles and modes of dress, the melding of nineteenth and twenty-first century technologies into farming communities of telecommuting professionals, a home school system in which a child got the best possible education through the personal attention of her own parents. Nothing was left to chance, and every influence was subject to strict control. But, as artificial as life on the reservation proved to be, she realized that it was only part of a greater effort intent on assuring that the world at large never had to deal with the fact that she was one of the most dangerous human beings ever born.
	But now, that effort had come to an end. Phoenix’s head raised in alert thought. The lie was coming undone! There might be hope yet.

Phoenix awoke with a start. Her arms and legs were bound in a frightening grip. The dark and the unfamiliar surroundings combined to set her heart tripping in her chest. The weight of dreamless sleep lay over her still, a thick blanket isolating her in timelessness. She started thrashing before details could penetrate her disorientation. The binding constriction resolved into a sheet, wildly entangled around her naked body. Before she could grasp anything more of her surroundings, a second thump disturbed the silence. Phoenix shook herself further awake. The parts of her mind that could grasp and alter reality still slumbered. She didn’t have the energy to throw off the weight that paralyzed her psionic gifts. Her ears strained to make out what lurked on the other side of her door. She felt far more naked and vulnerable than nudity could account for. 
	Phoenix bit her lip. So much of her training had focused on ensuring that she never became wholly reliant on her mental abilities. There were simply too many things that could cause the higher faculties to go dormant. Emotional stress being high on the list. 
	Phoenix was sliding out of bed, wrapping the sheet more carefully around her when the reason for her sense of danger revealed itself. Her attention was drawn to the door by the soft footfall. Before her eyes, the door exploded inward in a hail of splinters. Phoenix cringed before the shock wave, even as her reflex to project a deflecting field around herself proved impotent. A figure stood in the shattered opening, backlit by light thrown out from all the way back in the kitchenette. Phoenix stood still as the figure stalked up to her. Behind the strange female, Phoenix could see her body guards, Arthur and Samuel, run into the sitting room.
	Phoenix faded back under the stranger’s advance, until her spine was to the wall. There was a dream-like quality to the moment, as her potential refused to wake up and come to her defense. Phoenix looked into the woman’s face, unable to make out anything more than a caricature of her features in the dark. She was staring at Phoenix, her eyes smoldering and feral. She pressed forward, bodily crushing Phoenix against the wall. Her hands came up and covered Phoenix’s face. The woman leaned into her, her head bowing over Phoenix’s shoulder, nestled against her neck. Pinned, Phoenix felt tendrils of foreign thought bore into her mind. Her fear finally kicked in. She snapped awake. The details of the room crystallized in her awareness, as if someone had turned on the lights. 
	The stranger’s presence among her thoughts thrust deep into her wounded soul, perforce opening herself to Phoenix through this forced intimacy. Just before Phoenix could marshal her strength to eject the intruder from her mind, her inner eye fell upon a terrible image nesting deep within the stranger’s core. A ship being devoured by a man sized star. Phoenix’s hands locked on the woman’s shoulders, forcing her back far enough for their eyes to meet. The stranger’s features resolved. The face before her was unfamiliar, but she recognized the pain that dwelt there. Loss, anger, grief, and above all guilt. Phoenix could see recognition enter the other’s eyes, even as she acknowledged what she had seen, to herself.
	Those haunted eyes suddenly spilled over, and with a heavy sigh, she collapsed in Phoenix’s arms. Phoenix stared at the woman as she eased her onto her bed. So, this was her catatonic patient, she mused. Phoenix checked her over as she laid her out on the bed. She had withdrawn back into herself. As Phoenix tried to step away to recover the sheet she had lost in the encounter, the stranger’s hand snapped out and gripped her arm hard.
	“It’s okay,” Phoenix said at once, “I just need to cover myself up.” Indeed, she grinned, as her keepers stood gaping at the demolished doorway, in the company of other control agents Phoenix did not know. The hand relaxed. Phoenix slipped away, arms held out of the way as the sheet snaked up and around her torso. Finally, she turned to face the group of men. “Arthur?” She invited with an arched brow. She was pleased to see the heat in his face, suggesting that he had the decency to blush as he stood gawking.
	Arthur eased into the room and joined her at the bedside. “Ah, yes, I suppose introductions are in order,” he said with a slight smile. Phoenix glanced at him sideways and wondered if he had been chosen to chaperone her on the basis of his fatherly personality. Given the fact that she had never known the identity of her father, not even from complete access to her mother’s memories, it seemed a natural enough weakness for the agency to try to exploit. That was how the whole business worked, she figured. The big brains figured out what the holes were in her life and filled them with carefully chosen surrogates. Still, she had not decided to hold it against Arthur. Yet.
	Phoenix shrugged, “Well, I assume that this is the pilot from the Intrepid,” she aired with irony. Arthur looked at her with a grin, and rubbed the back of his head.
	“Yes, of course,” he said, “This is Naomi Eden Harkin. According to the security detail that accompanied her, she doesn’t do anything volitional. She has to be told to eat, to go to sleep. She has to be walked through bathing and waste elimination. They said that she will carry out complex instructions to the smallest detail, sparing no attention. But only that far. No initiative what so ever. And then she does this,” he gestured at the recumbent form in Phoenix’s bed. “She was told to wait out front while we moved her stuff in. But the next time someone looked up she had disappeared. We didn’t know where she had gone until she tripped the wire on your door. Are you all right?” He asked finally.
	“Caught me napping,” Phoenix responded. “If she had meant any harm I suppose I would be cat food by now,” she smiled charmingly. Phoenix sat down on the edge of her bed and smoothed a lock of hair out of Naomi’s face. “You know, I was a zombie too for a while. You have to remember, she’s still in there. A prisoner of herself, but she still has the keys. She knows what’s going on around her, it is just irrelevant compared with what she’s dealing with inside,” Phoenix offered. She took one of naomi’s hands in her own. “See what can be done about the mess, hey? I’ll fix it up when I have a chance. I’m sure there s other stuff you all need to do. We’ll be fine, so go ahead,” she dismissed. Arthur caught the hint, and ushered the rest of the crowd out of the doorway.
	Phoenix leaned close to her patient and said cheerfully, “Well, Naomi, you are a wreck. I hope you want to get better real quick, because I need someone to talk to too.”
 
 culled material 
Am I ready for that? It had been a long time since she had been exposed to vacuum. 
	
Beyond them, a brilliant, blue curve of sky beckoned, and her body ached with a need to be cast at that horizon. 

Phoenix had been picked up by the pair of ASIA agents and escorted off the island reservation with out explanation. 

As if they would give her this much time to think if they intended to kill her. They knew her well enough to know that she was far from helpless without her psi. 

Her guess was that the Aegis Security\Intelligence Agency had simply assigned a couple of agents to escort her to her step-father on Venus who would be able to return her—if not back to her home on the reservation—at least to her mother’s home on Ao’Ajeo. 

If she went back, would the memories still be waiting? Her mother died in the service when she was barely eleven years old. 

She averted her thoughts from the many ways in which she had been used and reflected once more on how she had gotten to where she was. After she had been drafted into the Avatar Program, she had been moved to Olympia, where the Academy’s affiliate campus and facilities had been relocated after the destruction of its research facilities on Vancouver Island. In the four years of accelerated learning and intense psionic training, she had also been studying an exotic form of martial arts under her father. That training had given her an edge in gymnastic competition. 
	At least until her fever had forced her to withdraw.

It had been a long time since she had been in the jurisdiction of the Awakened Establishment’s Aegis. She was surprised that she still had clearance. She considered the yet unanswered questions. The AEA represented too many interests for her to guess the purpose of her enforced visit. Still, ending up here eliminated a couple of unpleasant possibilities. Why would they take her into free territory unless her summons had something to do with the space program? They wouldn’t. Which meant that it was the Project, not Control, jerking it’s hand on her leash. 
	Thank God. With that in mind, she felt less afraid of her body guards with their thought-control training and their damping equipment. She shivered, as she thought of all the times as a child she had trusted herself in the keeping of psi control agents, ignorant of their prerogatives.

While her mother had been a loving parent, she had also been very private about her history. In spite of the rapport they shared, Phoenix had never really known much about the woman who had given her birth, and in whose image she had been conceived. Phoenix understood that she had been involved in human-avon relations; to the point where she had spoken the language and adopted the culture at home. Alien as both were to the people she had later grown up with, she had become accustomed to it all before she could speak.
 culled material 

 culled material 
 culled material 

