AV 00-0000 NOTEBOOK
	Concept Development
	See AV 00-0000 MAIN for Perspective and Context Notes

ACTIVE NOTES

Separate Lives of the One in Three
Revision : Three of a Kind, The Big Picture

In consideration of the entire story, it is evident that the positions and roles of Andrea and Alex are partially inverted. Alex, not Andrea, was Alexandrea’s lone daughter. Alex was the one taken into the Human Establishment and inducted into the Avatar Project. Alex was the one who inherited her mother’s mind, and lived in her shadow for ten years. Alexandrea, at the age of twenty-seven, passed through the depths of Alex’s unconscious mind into the world within her. She awoke, having died in the embrace of her male aspect, in avon form on ancient Aeryn, where she would blood the Dragon and Phoenix Avatars who gave birth to the avon race. Due to her recognition as the Goddess, Alexandrea took flight, eventually stumbling across Earth where she divided herself into male and female aspects, maintaining a low profile for several thousand years before reuniting herself in Earth’s twenty-first century and conceiving her first avon daughter. 

Alexandrea’s death, during an unexpected encounter in deep space, when that daughter was only seven years old, opened a door through which she was able to ascend into the body of Alex. Alex was assaulted by the Empire’s enemies who sought to use her as a cat’s paw in an attempt to penetrate the Imperial House. Alex withdrew from the psychic rape, trading places with her mother in the shadow of her own mind. Alex awoke in a seven year old body, shaken by the assault she had escaped and the momentary touch of her mother’s mind as they passed through each other, and found herself in a situation too similar to the one that scarred her original childhood. Given the similarities in the situation she confronted, she convinced herself that her memory of the past ten years was some sort of delusion, a fantasy she retreated into in the moment of her mother’s death. 

Alex was determined not to make the mistakes she had made in her “fantasy” and took up her mother’s responsibilities. By the time she was seventeen again, she had been a key figure in revealing the existence of an alien threat, the truth about psionics, and a new order of technology that had been abstracted from psionic research. She earned an essential position in the Exodus, and again proved a key figure when her entire convoy was lost in a translation accident. Alex guided her fleet through the uncharted depths of hyperspace, bringing them safely to the shores of Oasis, where they encountered the avon race. Alex was shocked to find herself in a place she remembered from her “fantasy” among a race of people like herself. She was not surprised at all to be recognized by both sides as the emissary of first contact. She was an alien raised among humans, and virtually alien to avon culture. The worst part of it was, like on Earth, the reaction of an entire civilization to her appearance. When she confronted humans with the truth about psionics, they had tried to deify her. She knew from her “fantasy” that she resembled the avon deity, but she had not expected them to assert that she was the Goddess. 

Alex could not help but be caught in the middle of the conflict that was brewing as human and avon conservatives provoked crisis after crisis that eventually turned into war. Because humans were psionically latent for the most part, avon conservatives insisted that, given the compatibility of the two races, it was necessary for humans to be integrated into avon civilization in a subordinate role as a servitor race. Human conservatives asserted that humans and avon must not interbreed or submit to non-human authority. The essential problem had to do with the fathering of children. A human man produced human children, when mating with a female or an avon. An avon sire produced avon children, when mating with a female or an avon. While genetic material could easily be exchanged between the two races, the sexes, which were the defining difference between those races, were clearly discriminate. There were three parties of thought, or factions. The conservative avon were considered to be pro-servitor, conservative humans considered to be pro-establishment, while the majority of people spread out between those extreme views were considered to be pro-consort. It resulted inevitably in a bloody war, which resulted in the creation of separate Human and Avon Establishments opting for separation from the Avon Empire. Other Establishments, representing other sentient races linked together by the Gates of Paradox controlled by the Avon Empire, already existed. The two new Establishments joined the Allied Establishments of the Aegis, which constituted a formal senate joining the Imperial Court, constituted by the Houses of the Avon Empire, in balancing the power of the Imperium. This peaceable arrangement came at the person cost of Alex. She was forced to sacrifice herself to prevent the sabotage of the Gates of Paradox from destroying the universe. By virtue of her success, she was recognized as God/Goddess incarnate, and her last instructions to the Twin Pillars of the Empire redefined the role and nature of the Avon Emperor, and the Imperial Line. 

Alexandrea, with her greater experience, and superior position in the strange paradox of her life, was able to escape from the assault on her daughter by feigning her own death. Alexandrea buried all of her memories in Andrea, and transferred her naked mind, and the core of her identity, to Alexander, triggering his translation into female form. Knowing what she did about what would unfold during the next year, and how crucial it was to her existence, she would be unable to awaken until the touch of Alex’s psychic assailant drove the conjoined minds of Xander and Andrea to retreat leaving Alexander free to remember herself and execute the ambush she had set up for the rapist. 

APPLIED NOTES

Separate Lives of the One in Three
Book One : Three of a Kind

Alexandrea Virginia Morgan, or Andrea, was born an only child, or so she thought. Unknown to her, her conception had occurred in triplicate, as a consequence of the extraordinary union of Ashana and Ashara's minds, bodies and spirits. At the moment of her conception, Alexandrea was in three places at the same time, caught in the embodiment of her primal understanding--the conception of herself in the understanding of her parents' union, and the conception of the pair her emergence had supplanted. Andrea herself was drawn to the moment of her conception, contributing an understanding of things to come that changed Ashana and Ashara as much as they had changed each other. The two couples that had embraced were replaced by three identical young women, due to the fusion of the female aspects of Ashana and Ashara and the transformation of their unscathed male aspects that was triggered by the conceptual revelation of unity. An unconscious attempt to hold on to what they had been resulted in the inception of replicas of their selves in sex split compliment twins even as each member of the new trinity conceived of a daughter self. 

It was in the wake of these inceptions that the neo-triplets were forced to turn to the seeds of life within them to determine who bore which of the burdens revealed in their glimpse of their lives to come. One, bearing the seed of a single daughter, would have to carry that seed into the Human Establishment and would die before the child turned eight. One, bearing the seed of two daughters, would remain the mother to the children Ashana and Ashara had already had, and assume the name of Ashana until her own death in the same unfortunate year. One, bearing the seed of two daughters, would succumb to a poison that would damage the trinity-daughter, and cause it to develop into a male fetus. That one would be Ashara, who would live, acting as the empress's regent for the reincarnated Ashana. 

The reincarnate compliments would be taken by their Houses, and raised as heirs to the twin pillars. The girl turned boy would be raised in wandering exile by the male aspect of Ashara, as the legal heir to the Emperor--a girl who had developed into a boy by virtue of the very poison that killed the Emperor himself. The other girl would be fourth in line to the throne, raised with her two older sisters in a less severe exile to Oasis by the male aspect of Ashana. The female aspect of Ashana would rise to the throne as the champion of the war triggered by the assassination of the Emperor, by virtue of ancient laws of precedence and inaccurate interpretation of certain prophesies. Ashana's trinity-daughter would be the first of the five children conceived on that day of union to encounter the daughter of Alexandrea, three years after the deaths of their mothers. The game they played to become acquainted with each other's lives would one day cost Alex her life. 

Alex's death in the Human Establishment, while pretending to be Andrea, raised countless unanswered and unanswerable questions, but it also left Andrea, an avatar in training, in the perfect position to go deep under cover within the Imperial Court of the Avon Empire. Alex's death also triggered Xander's reversion to her natural female form, and led the authorities on Oasis to reunite Xander and Andrea. Xander's condition was not permanent, and Andrea inadvertently allowed the authorities to discover that sexual polymorphism was a trait she and Xander had in common. This discovery was seen as evidence that the decision to pair the two of them was prophetic. Xander had been promised to Alex before the two had been born, being members of the imperial line and of an age, such an engagement was typical. Andrea, unfortunately, had not been prepared for such a relationship being forced on her, but considering the devotion she had been ordered to pursue, it was a blessing in disguise.  It also brought her, as the consort of the "rightful" heir to the Emperor, into intimate contact with the Empress, "Cinder" and her compliment, "Coal", the reincarnations of Ashana, and the reincarnations of the Imperial Regent Ashara, "Ember" and "Ash". 

Andrea, Xander, Cinder and Ember were all beginning their devotions to the Goddess, whom they all resembled perfectly. Possession of compliments, or a consort, spared the three girls a degree of embarrassment they were all grateful for. Being an Ideal proved to be much harder on Xander, who had grown up as a boy and tended to think of herself as a boy--to the relief of those who opposed the rule of an Empress. Andrea set aside her own apprehensions to tend to Xander's, oblivious to the fact that her mate was so busy trying to prove his manhood he was damning her in the process. Cinder caught on to the scheme her own compliment had cooked up to steal Andrea's favor and tried to stop it, but she was too late. At best, she only delayed the inevitable--and assured that it would come out even worse for Andrea. Her intervention did accomplish something valuable. Xander and Andrea were able to reach an understanding that enabled them to achieve a kind of unity. The two were able to translate in cooperation into avon forms, an extraordinary accomplishment difficult even for compliments like Ash and Ember or Cinder and Coal.  

A Dreamer in the Dream
Book One : Coming of Age

Alexandrea Virginia Morgan, or Andrea, was born a normal girl, or so she thought. She had been born in an environment in which the powers of her mind did not seem extraordinary, but in fact were minor in comparison to those possessed by other adults and children around her. In her own way, she had always been an exceptional individual. She had a gift for Athletics and Academics and an instinctive and intuitive grasp of Aesthetics. As active and energetic as she was, she still managed to spend a great deal of time in a world of her own--but she never imagined that her dream world was anything more than that, a vivid and entertaining flight of fancy. It would simply stun her to realize that the place she dreamed of was the real world, and the world she lived in a dream. It would startle her more to learn that, while the two worlds she thought of as her own were the same world, there was another world in which she was the subject of a strange experiment to awaken the potential of her mind, an experiment reflected in her world as the Avatar Project. 

Andrea had assumed she was an only child until the death of her mother when she was seven years old. The trauma of sharing her mother's death through their telepathic rapport had nearly shattered her mind. Concern for her resulted in a successful search for her father, and the discovery that she had a twin sister, who bore the same name and called herself Alex. Alex possessed greater power than Andrea, and utilized it with greater proficiency. Her greater skill had shielded her from the full impact of their mother's death, and allowed her to help rehabilitate Andrea over the next two years. Alex had two sisters, one and three years older. Neither twin knew that their father was in fact the mother of their older sisters, from a union that the events of Alex and Andrea's conception dissolved. Due to Andrea's enrollment in the Avatar Project, and Alex's obligations to her own patrons, it proved impossible for Andrea to return with her father and sisters to their home on Oasis, but allowances were made for her to visit frequently. Oasis was the threshold between the Avon Empire and the Human Establishment, two of the major powers of the Aegis. The third major power in the Aegis, the Avon Establishment, consisted of purists who rejected the integration of human and avon races and cultures--a prejudice matched only by that of the Human Establishment's conservatives. The Empire acted as a buffer between its antagonistic allies, resting its authority in the promotion and preservation of the imperial bloodline, and the legends asserting its origin in the embodiments of the Goddess--revered by avon--and the God--revered by humans. 

Andrea became aware that her twin changed her appearance in public, and inquired why, when they met for their fifteenth birthday. The explanation startled her. Andrea was astonished to discover that she and her entire family were humans of avon descent, born into the exclusive imperial bloodline. The avon imperial bloodline was an extraordinary phenomenon, save for the representation of all three sexes, all members of the bloodline were genetically identical. Due to the perfect parity of the imperial genome, any breeding within the pure bloodlines produced genetically identical offspring. Because of this extraordinary fact, there were strict rules and obligations imposed on the pure bloods. Because her mother had refused, or been unable, to identify her own parentage, she had been exiled. Her mates had followed her into exile, forsaking their own ties, and thus the ties of their children. For the entire exiled branch, there was a way to return to avon society, but it meant accepting a role that was equal parts priest, paladin and prostitute, in service of the Trinity which had originally embodied and given birth to the imperial line. Unfortunately, while the imperial line was revered in the Empire, and respected in the Allied Establishments, attacks against the Empire were often directed against children of that bloodline. Such had been the conclusion regarding the death of Alex and Andrea's mother. When Alex was sixteen years old, it proved true once again. In spite of her efforts to disguise her imperial blood, she was targeted by an assassin. Andrea's mind was better shielded against the trauma of her twin's death, but she opened herself in the hope of saving her sister's mind, but Alex slipped out of her grasp and into oblivion. Alex's death was declared on the basis of circumstantial evidence, but there was never any doubt in Andrea's mind.

Following the death of her twin sister, and the appearance of what had to be her perfect clone only a week later, Andrea started down a path that would force her to confront a strange truth. The death of Andrea's sister had been brutal, an unspeakable and bizarre murder that had left only hints of who she had been. The appearance of this new "Alex" forced the authorities to conclude that the identification of the victim, which had been purely circumstantial, had been in error. Andrea knew the strange girl could not be her twin and confronted her. She found herself confronting more than she dared to imagine even in her wildest dreams. The girl was really a boy, a boy with exceptional mental powers, who claimed to have inexplicably transformed into a perfect copy of Andrea's twin, Alex. The transformation took place at the very moment of Alex's death--what Andrea considered the time of death, for she had suffered a crippling seizure, and a feeling of dying herself at the time the boy claimed he had transformed. The boy, when he could manage the temporary reversal of his transformation, could have been Andrea's own brother--and strangely enough, he was. His name was Alexander Victor Morgan. Like Andrea, Alex had grown up alone with a single parent. He had been raised by his father, never knowing his mother. Alexandrea and her sister had been reunited and raised by their father following the death of their mother, whom the children were all named after. The boy's father turned out to be the twin of Alex and Andrea's father. 

Andrea took Alex under her wing, accepting the theory proposed by their father and initiating the boy in the mysteries of being a girl. At the same time, she found herself convinced that her twin had somehow become a part of her brother--that her brother had truly become her twin. Andrea struggled to make sense of the irresistible sexual magnetism between them, refusing to deny the new girl the comforts and intimacy that had existed between Andrea and her twin. Andrea also tried to keep her head as her exposure to Alex opened door after door in her own mind, awakening a power in her that rivaled his. Andrea found herself in close company with two intimate friends of Alex's, who had experienced a similar awakening, after witnessing Alex's transformation. 

Andrea's waking world was a construct imposed on her unconscious mind to trap the focus of her soul, her true identity, and force her to confront the enigma called the Point Paradox. This construct had mapped itself to a part of her inner cosmology, protected from her own creation by idiomatic compromise, but the world she lived in was haunted by the embodiments of her dreams, some of which were powerful enough to invade the quarantined realm of her waking world, and the death of her twin was only the first instance of the dream confronting the dreamer. 

An Invisible Loop
Book One : A Daughter's Duty

It was a twenty-seven year loop. It was a loop in which she was conceived and born in and of herself when she was seventeen and twenty-one, respectively, in which she was rescued from dissolution at the age of twenty-seven by herself on the cusp of turning seven. The irony of it is that only she was subject to that loop, passing through an eye of paradox at the age of seventeen to preserve her own conception. She was fighting an all out assault on her mind when she slipped through the eye, arriving in the past by retreating into the very depths of her own mind to escape, emerging in the moment of her conception. 

In her understanding, her mother was a spy, working under deep cover within the Avon Empire, where she was Av Asha an embodiment of the goddess. Her mother had given her up to prevent her from being raised into the same calling. Ironically, she had been given up to the ASIA, which raised her with the intention of having her follow in her mother's steps. She did not realize that she was being prepared for that specific task, but she was being raised in the Avatar Project, and her preparation was concealed in the body of her training as an Avatar. She was only seven when she experienced her mother's death through the rapport that had allowed her mother to be a true mother to her. The experience scarred her, while at the same time kicking the doors to her psionic potential wide open. She feared that the destruction she caused reacting to her mother's death would never be forgotten or forgiven, that her masters would conclude once and for all that she was simply too powerful to be allowed to live. It was that fear, coupled with a dark secret she went to any length to preserve, which created the real concerns about her stability. It was during an emergency that the fears about her were set aside, and she was prematurely activated as her mother's replacement. She knew her mother would not have wanted her to follow in her footsteps, but she could not resist the possibility of somehow finding and punishing her mother's killer. 

An Emergency Activation - Assessing Vael
Av Ashi - An Embodiment of the Goddess Recognized
Extradition and Embrace - A Promise of Activation, and Deniability - On Her Own
Execution of a Plot - The Most Intimate Rape

A Perfect Conception - A Bloody Inception
A Traumatic Awakening - An Inquisition, Reinterpretation and Confirmation
Another Embrace - An Assumption of Activation, Human Contacts
A Fear of Friendship - A Fear of Exposure, In Over Her Head

A Complication - An Unexpected Pregnancy, Arrested 
A Sense of Danger - A Warning Repeated, A Promise
A Threat of Conspiracy - A Conversation Overheard and Fled
An Opportunity to Escape, Compromised - An Interception and Abduction

A Prisoner - A False Convert
A Pirate's Probation - Proving Herself
A Pirate's Pirate - An Instinct for Survival
A Mutiny - An Opportunity to Escape, An Obligation to Return



































Head
Body


