DAVID AES\ AV\ AVATARS

Av had thought she was dreaming, but when the psi cops burst into her room to discover her in bed with a male version of her self she had been mortified. (The dream she remembered had been rather explicit.) Then she had been unconscious. The deans of the military prep academy had not been amused by the police report. Charged with a violation of her psionic license, she never got a chance to explain herself. To her shock, she found herself placed under arrest and escorted away under guard.

A three day long drive gave her plenty of time to think about her “crime”. It had been ten years since the traumatic night that had scarred her as a child. It had been almost six years since the death of her mother had left her without a family. Av had been able to restore her shattered mind by mastering her body under Kevin Zhan’s tutelage. That she had a frightening power over her body was unquestionable. In the first year of her treatment, she had not been able to help physically embodying the sex of those she came into contact with. She had become an unparalleled gymnast and a proficient martial artist by the time she had learned to control the shifts in her sex. It was this training that had allowed her to adopt her female personna, and fit in so well among humans. She was not the first active to use her power to alter her sex, and without argument her natural sex would have isolated her among humans. Kevin had her registered as a free-gender, so the legal aspect was settled. She had been happy with her adopted sex, so it troubled her that her mind had manifested a second body. 

Av reached her unnamed destination to confront her old mentor, and representatives of the three agencies that defined the existence of psionic actives within the Aegis. The Psi Corps, in which she had faced manditory enlistment, was an integrated military service branch. Like the Marine Corps, it operated largely under the wing of the Navy. The Psi Corps drew its personnel from the growing population of psionic actives within the interstallar nation. The Aegis Security and Intelligence Agency (ASIA) drew its own psionic resources from sports and culls of the Psi Corps. Psionics with unique or exceptional abilities. 

Av and the six other avatar recruits—two young women, and four young men—were introduced to each other and the Avatar Project. Anistasia Neve Kohler. Morgan Erin Wildmuir. Christian Allan Temple. Mason Damon Drake. Michael Thomas Kinkade. Alexander James Maxwell. All of them had been pulled from their last year of Academy Prep, which made them the youngest avatar recruits ever. 

Av was not new to the Avatar Project. For four years, she had been a ward of the state under treatment at the AP facilities. Following her mother’s death, she had become a ward of her mother’s estate. In a way, it was reassuring to find herself back under the wing of her childhood mentor. She took her concern about her strange manifestation to him. She described the confrontation, and the state she had been in, and then confessed to having had these dreams several times before. An examination confirmed the implications. (She had lost her virginity to her other-self—and apparently she was broken in rather well.)

Kevin Zhan invited her out to dinner—to celebrate their reunion, and to address a concern he had regarding her ‘abberent behavior’. By the time they met up, their ‘evening out’ had turned into a leave of absence from the Project. She arrived at his office, and when he met her, he escorted her to a flyer. They proceeded to the starport, and began their flight to the aegis capital on Venus. 

During the interplanetary hop, Kevin explained the politics of the situation. Certain members of the establishment opposed the idea of enlisting minors into the program. The government defended its actions, and assurred the opposition that there had been a compelling reason for the change in the project’s agenda. Active ASI agents were known as avatars. It was only appropriate. Avatars were the closest thing to gods the human race had ever known. They were not, however, the closest things to gods that existed in the universe. As Av knew better than anyone. Which explained why they were sending her—with Kevin as a chaperone—to Venus to speak to the senate.

Arriving in haste, the two of them were put up and required to wait until the senate could assemble. It was a once in a life time vacation for her, but Kevin applied himself to renewing and reinforcing his connections in the elite circles of the establishment. For a week, she was his date to evening functions with the heads of the interstellar government. The high point of her week with Kevin  was her discovery that Kevin was, like her, a sexual polymorph. Av, who had always felt affection for her father-figure, suddenly fell in love. In spite of that Kevin maintained the distance between them. She had no idea what it cost him to resist her advances. Hiding her frustration, she succeeded only in fixating on her sexual ‘perversity’. 

The moment of truth caught up to her all too soon. It was disturbing, coming forth to reveal what only she and a handful of Aegis authorities knew about her mother’s death. Her mother had been an avatar, and she, her ship, and all hands had been lost to a single hostile contact that had intercepted them in deep space. What only Av knew, and had kept secret for reasons she could not explain, was that her mother had recognized the entity that had murdered her. It had, in fact, been looking for her. It was a shock to learn that after six years the same entity had reappeared, leading an assualt on a non-aligned world that had been negotiating with the aegis for membership. In light of this threat, the government had broadened the scope of the Avatar Project in the hopes of developing the capacity to respond to a direct assault against a member of the Aegis.

Catching herself off guard in the shower, she had no choice but to confront her sexuality. No choice but to ask herself why she would manifest such an ability. Her split manifestations resulted in the simultaneous expresson of her male and female forms. Her mentor had deduced that this unusual event was a reaction to going into heat. Her alien nature had asserted itself in spite of her adoption of a human sex. It was as if her own biology betrayed her, forcing her to face her exotic heritage. The time had come for her to discover her sexual identity, and shed the disguise behind which she had hidden the androgyny that had made her so uncomfortable among humans. Her frustration tempted her to to take advantage of her anonymity. No one in the capital really knew who she was, so she did not see any particular risk to exploring the strangest aspect of her sexuality—her native sex. Of course she had no idea that she was the the perfect image of the avon Ideal. What she experienced from the avon who approached her was similar to what she had found attractive in Kevin, the absolute confidence, the directness of her proposition. Even though she did not understand that the avon saw her as an avatar of her goddess, she did taste the air of worship with which her partner embraced her. 

The next day, the entire avon delegation tracked her down to the house where she was staying with Kevin. Confused by their demand that she return with them to her rightful place in the circle, she turned to Kevin. He quickly pieced together what had happened during his absence the previous evening. After somehow convincing them to leave, he turned on her and they had their first argument. That night they slept together for the first time. 

It took both of them by surprise. In the fight, all of Av’s insecurities had come out, followed by her rationalizations. With the avon she had manifested only her native sex, but with Kevin, she was shocked by the manifestation of her complimentary halves. Unlike any previous manifestation, where her split perspective possessed an air of instability, her diunity cemented itself during the course of their intimacy. 

The morning after presented each of them with a problem. Kevin knew he had overstepped the bounds of their relationship, but that concern was displaced as Av came to him with her problem. She had discovered that she could not revert back to normal. Kevin could not explain her transformation, but he could assert that it was a reflection of a native avon phenominon. Occasionally, an avon would be born with an identical twin of the opposite gender—both of whom developed in psychic rapport as one being. It was as if av, having subjected herself to a predominantly female identity, had spawned her complimentary body to restore that alien balance. Intrigued, her childhood mentor offered to introduce her to the disciplines and rites by which her own kind dealt with this aspect of their heritage. Her mentor also distinguished her forms from each other by addressing them as Ash and Ember. A minute distinction, as the meanings derived from a slight difference in pronouncing her given name.



 
[opening complication]—In the embrace of dreams—Her first split manifestation resulted in the simultaneous expresson of her male and female forms. Her mentor deduced that this unusual event was a reaction to going into heat. Her alien nature had asserted itself in spite of her adoption of a human sex. Intrigued, her childhood mentor offered to introduce her to the disciplines and rites by which her own kind dealt with this aspect of their heritage. Her mentor also distinguished her forms from each other by addressing them as Ash and Ember. A minute distinction, as the meanings derived from a slight difference in pronouncing her given name. 

[conflict opening]—In the flush of heat—It was as if her own biology betrayed her, forcing her to face her exotic heritage. The time had come for her to discover her sexual identity, and shed the disguise behind which she had hidden the androgyny that had made her so uncomfortable among humans. As oblivious to her nature as she was to her sex, there was no possible way she could know that unlocking her sexuality would also release the seeds of her own destruction.

[conflict escalation]—In the embrace of nightmares—Av gradually confronted a legacy of the madness that had shattered her mind as a child. An alien within her, penetrating her so intimately that it shared her very identity. 

[conflict escalation]—The thing that terrified her was that she seemed to be acting against her own will. Her awareness, her attention encompassed both perspectives. It was so hard to tell when she was acting accoring to her own will, and when she seemed to act in spite of it. So desperate was her fight to preserve her sanity, she could not even begin to examine the cause of this terrifying aberation. The opposing will expeienced the same terror. Because of what it was, and how it had come into being, it too believed itself to be Av. Programmed to possess all that Av was, her nemesis drove Av into fits and killing rages. 

[crisis]—The violent inner conflict between them came to an abrupt end as they finally, openly confronted each other. In their struggle to lay claim to the same identity, their reflections became perfect—each assuming Av’s natural sex. Ember fell under the unrelenting onslaught of her twin, drying out one last demand—I never controlled you. Why am I such a threat to you? What do you want from me? What do I have that you have not already taken? All I have left for myself is my will, and I can’t give you that, YOU HAVE YOUR OWN WILL. What more can you possible want from me? Ash suddenly conceived of herself—the first of her kind to do so, since she never supplanted her host, and thus was not able to conceive and reincarrnate Av. She adopted the name of Cinder.

[conclusion]—After the dust settled, and Cinder had been taken aside by Kevin Zhan, Ember took a day to put her self back together. Halfway through cleaning up her room, she lay down for a break and fell asleep. In her dream she confronted herself—You can not escape what you are. She woke up in a familiar embrace. Looking at herself, through male and female eyes, she was afraid. Before she could tear herself apart, Cinder burst in on her. After a moment of mutual confusion, Cinder announced—Don’t look at me. I got what I needed. This is all you. Figure it out for yourself. With that her nemesis left her alone with herself. It would be easy to doubt yourself, she admitted to her self, but you’d still have to live with yourself. I don’t know why this is happening to me. All I can do is hold myself together until I do. 

 
AVATARS : CAST & CHORUS

AVATARS 								

EMBER		AV ANVEA (ANVAO)—IN THE EYES OF HER OWN KIND SHE HAD NO NAME, JUST A DESCRIPTION—AVON’NAIOMI. AV, THE NAME ON HER BIRTH CERTIFICATE, HAD MANY POSSIBLE MEANINGS IN HER NATIVE TONGUE. CINDER AND ASH-EMBER—OR CINDER, ASH AND EMBER. A FORTUNATE THING FOR A SINGLE PERSON WHO FOUND HERSELF SUDDENLY EMBODIED IN TWO—AND LATER THREE—SEPARATE BODIES.
ASH		AV ANVEO
CINDER		AV ANVAE
ASIA		ANISTASIA NEVE KOHLER 
MEW		MORGAN ERIN WILDMUIR 
CAT		CHRISTIAN ALLAN TEMPLE 
MACE		MASON DAMON DRAKE 
MIKE		MICHAEL THOMAS KINKADE 
ALEX		ALEXANDER JAMES MAXWELL.
.·.
AESLYN		SINCLAIR
LAUREN		SINCLAIR
MORGAN		WILDMUIR
ANGELA		SHAE’QUINN
ANGELICA		SHAE’QUINN


ANGEL		ANGELA QUINN2
ANGEL		ANGELICA QUINN2 
ANNE		ANNE DURANT
EMBER		EMBER O'HENNEHEY
CRAIG		CRAIG THOMPSON
JON		JONATHAN PATRICK COOPER
CHRIS		CHRISTIAN MARTIN KLEIN
MARK		MARK JOSEPH KINGSTON

CHORUS		FRIENDS & FAMILIES

MORGAN		EVE MORGAN, P’G’GRAND MOTHER 
CHUCK		CHARLES COOPER
ALEX		WILDMUIR
ALEX		ALEXANDREA MORGAN I, DECEASED
JAKE		JACOB ALEXANDER MORGAN, UNCLE
BOZWELL		MORGAN’S CAT
NATHAN		NATHAN ALEXANDER QUINN
JAN		JANICE KINKADE QUINN
ALEX		ALEXANDER QUINN, BROTHER, DECEASED
ADDIE		ADRIENNE MELISSA KINKADE
ROB		ROBERT ANTON KINKADE
ISSAC		PROFESSOR EDGAR ISSAC MAYHEW, LEGAL GUARDIAN, MORGAN
RICH		RICHMOND BALE, EXECUTOR OF THE WILDMUIR ESTATE

CHORUS		CONTROL

CHAD		CHADWICK POWERS
SAM		SAMUEL MALHTUS
ART		ARTHUR REMMINGTON
JUDAS		ROBERT JUDE
KELLY 		KELLY EVERETT YOUNTZ
DAVID		DAVID SHELLY
FRANK		FRANKLIN LLOYD
CAL		CALVIN BROOKS
KENAR		AURORA DANU KENAR
AIMEE 		AIMEE HARRIS
KRIS		KRISTEN SHANE
SAM		SAMANTHA MARINER

CHORUS		PROJECT

MARK		MARK DREYFUS
MARTY		MARTIN CRAIG
DOUG		DOUGLAS JAXTON
BRENDEN		BRENDEN JAXTON
TONY		ANTHONY JAXTON, DECEASED
ANDY		ANDREW CHRISTOFF
SANDY		SANDRA CARLSON
TOM		THOMAS CARLSON
CRAIG		CRAIG SEFTON
JERRY		GERALD SEFTON
DON		DONALD BRANDT
LISA		LISA NORTON
RICK		RICHARD RAYNES
J.D.		JACK DANIEL ARLEIGH 
SHAR		SHARON RAMSES
JOSH		JOSHUA HAMMOND
CHRISTINE 		CHRISTINE PRICE
AARON		AARON GRENDEL

CHORUS		UNDERGROUND

HUNTER		ADAM STUART ALEXANDER
—		—, MOTHER

CHORUS		OTHERS

MONICA		MONICA BRODIN


 
A HISTORY OF AEGIS

One hundred years ago a pair of scientists discovered a way to unlock the potential of the human mind. Psionics developed into an applied science which opened the door to two vast and dangerous frontiers—space and mind. The knowledge and application of this science had been a carefully controlled government secret throughout the world. 

The existence of psionics had been advertised to the world only in terms of latent psionic potential. The publicly avowed purpose of the psionic reservation and research projects, created and administered by international treaty, was to conduct research into the development of active potential in the future. A propaganda cover for the seclusion of active psionics from the world. A purloined letter on a vast, international scale.

Psionic Reservation and Research Project’s were coordinated on an international scale. Latent psionics had been disclosed with the publication of the Sinclair-Drake unified field theory, but active psionics had been held close to the chest. Psionically Active individuals or Actives were relocated to these reservations as soon as they were identified. Any public display of power was loudly advertised as a manifestation of latent potential, and the poor sod who displayed the power was nabbed and bagged for “research” before he could show off anything else he could do.

In the public mind, psionics remained a theoretical science based on these studies into the latent potential of the human mind. The governments of Earth had been perfectly happy to nurture that illusion… until one too many devastating and fatal encounters in the depths of space. 

PROJECT OPTION 2 | AVATARS

		the series avatars introduces the group of young men and women who would be instrumental in bringing the age of psionics out into the open. each book focuses on the moments and events that shaped the featured individual. as a whole, each book adds to the depth and familiarity of people and places while building a multifaceted study of human interaction and evolution. in particular, adolescence is a time of significant focus for each individual, a time of self discovery which figures strongly in each one’s moment of crisis. in telling a larger and more complicated story through an array of individual perspectives, each work is permitted to deal with some of the bigger questions in a more personal and discrete manner. while a lot of common elements will pervade these books, they are not merely reiterations of the same story. they are actually part of the larger theme—that no two people live in exactly the same reality, and no two people possess the same version of the truth.

		.·. without becoming caught up in the same mess, i intend to focus on the shift from the world we know to the future i have envisioned. all of the peices have been turned over enough times to satisfy a thousand questions of what might be possible. to satisfy one of the most frustrating, i will say only that it is a premise of science fiction that sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. with what i can say about psionic ability, this is more true that in most cases. taking that, and admitting that human spirituality and intuition has cast a number of intriguing possabilities ranging from the mundane to the divinely esosteric out into common mind, this project begins from the perspective that for some reason, for some people, these notions are real if not accurate positions. beginning with a situation that is “in the family”, this project enters a movement to study and comprehend the mystery of the mind’s potential and analyze the various positions available. hence, it becomes a work of science fiction as the magic is brought under hard scrutiny. because it is a human story, it will also be a human drama of broad scope and intricate depth. to neutrlize the pitfalls of previous focus on characters and events, the cast and chorus will be extended to absorb the weight of threads that have previously been too tightly commited to certain individual roles. in addition, the emphasis on an opening impulse of the dawn of aegis will require other threads to become incorporated in this project, as the events and consequences need a larger arena within which to play out. because this opening chapter leads to aegis in the long run, the associated ttvv may have the same designed impact. in other words, there is the influence of a larger sphere at work behind the focus of this project. things that are implied or glimpsed here will come together in the next thousand years of human exploration of the twin frontiers of mind and space. 

SINGULARITY
Angel		...

DREAMER IN THE DREAM
Aeslyn		All of us had a bit of the power, but I was the one who had it in spades. I was the one who proved that it was real and not a figment of our imaginations because it always worked for me. I was like a goddess, and it scared me. I was the first one to know what we would one day all become. I was born in 1969, my two half sisters, Lauren and Caitlin, were born in 1968 and 1974 respectively. I’m the bastard of the family. My mother died in the massacre which also orphaned my cousin Morgan and erased a couple of generations of the families. Morgan and I came to live with Lauren and Caitlin at their house after the dust settled in 1975. That was how it began. Of all of the children of the families in our generation, we were the only ones who knew the family secret. We were the first generation of the families to discover the curse. We did not know that one day each of us, in our own way, would grow up to change the world, but we each set out to prove that we were not alone. One day we would take the magic of our childhood and turn it into science. Thank god we discovered first that it was art.

EYE OF THE ENVELOPE 	EN : 1997-2012 

		The tail end of the twentieth century was a time of subtle evolutionary crisis.  The great psychological stresses of the Information Age created a mind shattering shift in human perception.  A new potential had awakened in Man; a potential that can only be described as psionics. Recognition of this science came at the hands of two maverick researchers. Caitlyn Sinclair—an obscure psionics metaphysist—who was contacted by a fringe research and development firm to stabilize a frightening change in their premier theoretical engineer and technologies analyst, Mason Alexander—heading an aero- and astronautical research division in its effort to define the research parameters for a new branch of field based technologies.  Together they stumbled across a natural mechanism for realizing his theories.  

	–	Caitlyn Sinclair, an obscure undergraduate researcher, is picked up by the NSA and taken to a top secret research and development campus to recreate the work of their premier theoretical engineer and technologies analyst. Caitlyn is tersely briefed about the disappearance of Mason Alexander and then shown the result of his work, a silver sphere three meters in diameter suspended ten feet in the air in total defiance of gravity within a hastily constructed shelter. Mason Alexander, the resident theoretical engineer, apparently developed a means to manipulate gravity. She is informed that she was specifically identified by the missing scientist as the only other person he knew of who could understand his work. She does not understand what her qualifications have to do with FT research until she has reviewed Mason’s notes. The theoretical engineer had been working on a way to define the problems that the project faced in a way that researchers would be able to address.  The enigmatic notes which had baffled the project staff made astonishing sense in light of her own emphasis.  Caitlyn immediately realizes Mason did not acheive a technological breakthrough at all.  Instead, he became the breakthrough she has been pursuing her entire life.

	–	Caitlyn confronts her new knowledge of this situation and realizes the danger both she and Mason face.  The task for which she was recruited is impossible.  Her attempts to recreate his research demonstrate clearly that she can replicate his experiment, but she cannot give the NSA the answers they need.  She can, however, get through to Mason.  

	–	Mason has been possessed by an impressive manifestation of psychokinetic power.  Her efforts manage to breach the fugue state in which this new power has isolated her subject.  However, with the NSA breathing down her neck, she has almost no time to ascertain the reason for Mason’s frightening metamorphosis.  Caitlyn confronts Mason with the danger of their situation, pointing out that there is no way that she can provide what her keepers demand of her.  

	–	Caitlyn’s efforts to not only breach the fugue state in which this new power has isolated her subject, but to ascertain the reason for its catalysis lead to discoveries which will change the future of the entire human race.  Government interest in this sensitive research facility leads to an official recognition of the infant science of psionics, and thus psi’s themselves.  The desperate investigation by Caitlyn and Mason into the cause of his manifestation results in the discovery of a vital link between the mind and the very structure of space and time.  A link that could unlock the means for mankind to reach the stars.


 
MATERIAL TO ADAPT 

PREVIEW		Alex \—17—\ had to run. The truths her father had revealed to her offered no alternative. To remain in her childhood paradise would inevitably lead only to death. There was nothing to lose. 

		Alex escapes, savoring a few months of freedom, before she is tracked down and recaptured. Her unexpected pregnancy cost her the edge she needed to remain free.

OPENING		Alex \—25—\ was returning to the reservation after three months of trials in space. As always, a security detail was waiting for her on the concourse. It did no good to say it, but she was a slave. She had been born—and would die, like her mother before her—property of the agency that held her license. Their hold on her daughter almost guaranteed that. 

		Morgan \—0 - 7—\ had no idea that she was special. She grew up on a psionic reservation and research project never realizing she existed in a controlled environment. She was trained, like all the other children in the community, to develop and master the abilities of her body and mind. She never perceived anything exceptional in what she could do. Psionic ability was common on a reservation, and residents were all subtly conditioned in the ethics and etiquette of using their ability. She learned quickly and applied herself to new challenges with creativity and determination. She could be relied on to take responsibilities seriously. She could go in and help her mother with her work, but she didn’t know that they were working for the government on highly classified research. As far as she was aware, they were all perfectly normal people and so she never had to deal with the fact that she was one of the most dangerous human beings ever born on Earth.

		Morgan \—7—\ She was awakened to her full potential violently. She was asleep and she felt someone force their way into her mind. She struggled, instinctively rejecting this penetration of herself. She was overpowered at first and the psychic rape continued. As the probing became unbearably deep something in her snapped, and she lashed out. She stabbed deep into her assailant’s mind and then shoved everything away from her to lick her wounds. Or rather, she apparently shoved herself away from everything and almost died. Without her mother’s training she would have.

UNFOLDING		 

7 - 11		She never knew who had raped her mind, although he had exposed himself intimately to the core in doing so. She would have to look deep into peoples’ minds to check them, and it simply wasn’t done. Her life returned to normal, going to school, playing with friends, and striving to get involved in the reservation’s research project. The interface systems project was dedicated to research into psionic methods of manipulating media in higher dimensions that had led to the development of a point to point translation and interface drive. It was during the final stage of development that she became involved as a “contractor”, working on the experimental cores and array elements. 

		An assassin could not hide from a telepath, especially not when the telepath in question was between the ages of seven and nine. Certainly not when the girl in question thought she was playing a game. Alex still could not believe how easy it had been to manipulate Morgan. Hey, Morgan, do you think you can find someone in this crowd? This person is supposed to be thinking about one of the people you met earlier, as a target thought. No other clues. It can be a man or a woman. Maybe one, maybe more. This person might even be trying to control their surface thoughts. Morgan had not always found the search object, but she had loved to play the game. Sometimes it had been more complicated, but it always involved a distinct, and out of place element. Alex swallowed as she thought about it. A very dangerous game to let a child play, given a child’s sense of consequences.

		The work proceeded both at home, where the projects main facilities were located, and on various space based installations and test vehicles. The installation of the final, full scale prototype onboard the Adventure began in early May of twenty-ninety-seven.. Her mother was selected to accompany the ship during it’s long range drive trials in twenty-one-oh-one, because of her familiarity with the technology. But that was not the only reason, the project had cheated its way around one of the most serious limitations of the space program. While they had designs for FTL, or instantaneous, communications technology decades earlier, the ban on artificial intelligence arrested all applications of that technology from being developed. As a PRRP mission, however, they had access to a communications resource unavailable to normal deep space operations.

CONFLICT		The final prototype was installed into the deep space explorer Adventure. Something had to serve for a real time communications link, but one had to wonder what the project directors were thinking—were they thinking?—when they exploited the intimate telepathic rapport of a mother and her eleven year old daughter. Alex knew that she risked death participating in the field trials, but Morgan was allowed to remain ignorant of the danger to her only family.

CRISIS		\—see existing notes—expand—\ morgan found herself standing on the deck of the bridge of the adventure looking with wonder at the strange object that approached. The body belonged to her mother alexandrea, but their minds were so deeply entwined from months of constant rapport that morgan felt no sense of distance from what was unfolding before her mother’s eyes. Instead, she was starkly aware of being in two places at once. With one mind, morgan-alex got to their feet in a younger body and ran across the corner of the reservation where the interface systems project facilities were grouped. Morgan’s body stumbled, short of breath, up to a friendly, familiar form leaning against a wall outside of the mission control building. Morgan’s voice carried their excitement as she announced, “there’s something out here! I think it’s alive!”
	lieutenant o’neal looked at the girl, and for a moment couldn’t figure out what she was talking about. Then he suddenly remembered. “wait. Hold on. Alive? Are you saying that you’ve found something?” He asked in astonishment, as he mentally adjusted to the fact that he was talking to alex, not just morgan. “what are we talking about here? A planet? Alien life? Some sort of alien culture?” He pressed. Morgan was still catching her breath, nodding, shaking her head and shrugging. O’neal crushed out his cigarette and grasped her hand. As he led her inside, he quizzed her, “what is it exactly that you have encountered?”
	“i... Well,” she took a deep breath and finally gave a straight answer, “we’re not entirely sure. We picked up an anomaly on long range sensors. I mean an object traveling at superluminal speeds through the same quadrant we were. We tried to set up a scan to intercept it before it could pull completely out of range. You have no idea how hard that was!” She grinned. “damn, we really don’t have the sensor capability to deal with these kind of situations. We were lucky that our passives and gravitics indicated anything useful at all. We fired up the active sensors and began broadcasting broad spectrum sweeps hoping whatever it was would pass through and bounce back something that we could analyze. But when the return came, it was heavily compressed and laced with light wash.
	“light wash? But that would mean...”
	“yes,” she interrupted, “the object must have noticed the active pulses as it passed through them. As near as we can tell, they slowed down when they ran into the sweep path, oriented on us and then raced the return back to us. That was confirmed when their breaking wave caught up to us later. At some point it had to have dropped back to relativistic speeds or it would have arrived right on top of the incidence wave. We finally got them on gravitics again, and they are on approach to our position. Who all is awake and on duty?” Alex asked through her daughter.
	“director craig is still in mission control,” lieutenant o’neal answered as he concealed his shock. He led the girl into the mission control room. He waved for and got the director’s attention as he walked morgan over. Martin cannon craig listened to alan o’neal’s hasty summation before turning and grabbing morgan hard by the arms. He looked her carefully in the eye and commanded, “let me talk to alex, quickly!” Alex directed her attention to her daughter-self on earth, leaving morgan to pay attention to everything while her thoughts were diverted.
	alex, in morgan, answered, “director craig, you are not going to believe this!” Her girl’s voice crowed with excitement. She reiterated the details. “we’ve been watching it approach for about an hour, but this is the first sign we’ve had that it could be more than a celestial anomaly. It is demonstrating impossible behavior for an inanimate phenomenon. It turned toward us not twenty minutes ago and it’s getting closer!”
	“my god!” Craig uttered with shock. “what do you make of it, alex?”
	“i don’t know what to make of it,” she confessed. “whatever it is we have only just begun to get visuals of it that show more than a glint of light distortion,” she explained, as her attention wandered back to the ship. Still commanding morgan’s voice, she described what she was seeing, “whatever it is it is a luminous body. From a little over three astronomical units away it has an apparent magnitude of about minus fourteen, about half that of the sun viewed from earth. We’re reading obscene power corollaries through its interface footprint. Definitely field architecture, from its displacement configuration. As best as i can figure it, whatever is harnessing the power would have to be classed as a fourth order matrix. That is just unbelievable! If that’s its drive rating, then this ship could jump accurately between galaxies about as well as adventure could jump from sol to alpha centauri!” She exclaimed
	“can you tell if it is a natural or artificial source? Is there anything to indicate that there is some form of intelligence behind that power?” Craig challenged. “wait, you said it was closing. What are you doing?”
	morgan winced and turned her attention back to her body as he shook her. Alex felt her daughter’s discomfort as her own. “craig, you are hurting us,” alex complained before responding, “right now we aren’t doing anything. Captain ordered first contact protocol, so it looks like we’re going to wait for its next move. It is still several hundred million kilometers away, and at sub-light speeds we have some time before any kind of contact would be practical.” Alex paused and then replied to the preceding question, “if this is something that somebody built, they are way ahead of us in field technologies. On the other hand, a natural source...” Her voice trailed off. Morgan’s body conveyed alex’s thoughtful shrug. “we’re talking about one hell of a psi!” She cracked with a nervous laugh. “i don’t know if there is intelligence behind it, but it certainly is aware of us. I don’t want to think of what could evolve to exist in space with that much power at it’s disposal without developing some form of intelligence.” 
	this started a many sided argument on the ship as well as at mission control. Several different people stressed that assumptions based on human experience had no weight in the face of a truly alien phenomenon. Alex gave in and finally admitted, “sure, there’s no reason why this thing could have nothing more than a shark’s mentality. But my instincts tell me that it is more than some celestial animal. 
	“but let’s just look at the facts,” she proposed, still in the middle of the strange discussion. “it was sailing by at a good clip when our first scans hit it. It instantly changed vectors to intercept us,” she repeated, so she could point out, “that’s why i think i was reading a drive output, because this object obviously has control of its momentum and inertia if it can maneuver like that.” Alex paused, and morgan’s face looked stunned. “wait, hold on...” She said absently. Morgan had been monitoring the ship again when she noticed the upset among the crew
	alex picked it up and shifted her attention to see what had changed. The object had closed rapidly while she had been distracted by craig. It had come within a thousand kilometers when it finally stopped dead. “craig,” she said carefully, “it has stopped. We have been keeping station since our first long range scans. There is no doubt that it is taking a look at us now,” she reported. After a moment, she began, “i don’t sense any...”
	morgan’s voice cut off, and morgan felt herself shoved back into her body, barred from all but the faintest echo of alex. Craig was shaking her arm wanting to know why alex had cut off in the middle like that. “mr. Craig, she pushed me out and blocked her mind. Why would she do that?” Morgan asked puzzled. It had been a long time since her mother had cut her off, and the suddenness of it had alarmed her deeply. Morgan reached out and probed against her mother’s mind. Morgan couldn’t imagine any reason why alex would cut her off like that. She worried at her mother’s shields until they relaxed enough to let her in. As morgan looked around the bridge, she saw the pallor of the crew’s faces and smelled the scent of fear.
	alex was speaking tersely to craig, “director, the intelligence has just probed us. I can now say with perfect assurance what we are dealing with a sophisticated and highly compatible form of intelligent life. Whatever it is, it is a high order psionic, and it just peeled our minds like grapes and downed them whole. I...” Her control over her daughter’s voice gave out for a moment, “i’m a little shaken. I did my best to block morgan from their perception,” she revealed. “hold on a second while we try to hail them.”
	“wait, alex!” Craig interrupted, “what do you mean hail them?! You don’t have any idea how to communicate with them!”
	“don’t be ridiculous, director, of course i know how to communicate with them, exactly the same way i am communicating with you. Isn’t that one of the reasons why i am on this mission?” Alex challenged.
	craig was brought up short by the reminder. Alex was right, of course. It had been assumed that a telepath would be able to overcome the barrier of language in an encounter with an unknown intelligence, and the theory had been tested on a number of terrestrial animals, including cetaceans, canines and primates, with success. Some sort of meaningful communication had been achieved with most terrestrial life forms possessed of a nervous system, and the process seemed to be dependent on associative interpretation on the part of the telepath. Only the fact that no government was willing to advertise the existence of telepaths had prevented any from being employed for what alex was contemplating. Alex was preparing to reach out with her mind so she was already tuning morgan out to protect her.
	this was alex’s dream. First contact. Alex almost could not believe her good luck. She certainly did not blame morgan when it proved that she would not allow herself to be cut out of the excitement, so alex subdued and disguised her daughter-self within her thoughts. Morgan’s identity willingly submerged itself as alex probed across the surface of space, feeling for the edges of this unseen intelligence. The overwhelming scan alex and the crew had just endured had given her a trace to find that alien mind. 
	the only physical limits on the range of telepathy was familiarity. A mind that a telepath knew was easy to find across any gap, but a mind the telepath did not know had to be accessed through a sensory scan of that mind’s physical expression. Alex assumed that that was probably why the alien’s probe had been so intense. She faced the same problem, since she had nothing to train her attention on except the locus of that alien object in space.
	alex reached out across the void and felt her way into the heart of that brilliant vessel. She could have analyzed the structures of the organic creatures inside its shell and built up a picture of the alien, but her attention was focused on finding a higher organ that would give her access to their thoughts. What she touched was vile. That mind tasted of anger and contempt. In that mind was a prejudice, which alex realized was already intent on action.
	that was the adventure’s only warning.
	“they’re attacking!” Mother and daughter’s voices screamed in unison. Time seemed to stop. Alex faced the toughest decision of her life. As her thoughts rested their deadly fingers on the delicate organ of the alien, she knew that for an instant it was vulnerable. That mind was so preoccupied with attack, that it had not recognized her presence. No, she corrected herself, it had to know she had touched it, but it did not seem to consider her a threat. On the adventure the crew was riveted in shock at our declaration, while in mission control martin craig was swearing. Alex pondered that preemptive, decapitating strike for one eternal instant. A voice from her past echoed, a telepath must never act upon what she perceives in another mind, no matter how dire it may seem. The mind is the one part of reality where the unspeakable can be contemplated. Do not be surprised at what you can find in your own, or any other mind. A man is not a murderer until he puts thought to action. A telepath is only free to deny such a man his target. To strike before the killer attacks is to commit the crime first.
	it was morgan, desperately repeating the very words alex had spoken on a day when she had barely prevented her daughter from ripping a man apart with her naked mind. Alex felt the horror of the moment as she stepped back. Everything was still unfolding slowly. Morgan’s senses relayed to her the commanding sound of martin craig’s voice. He had tried to act immediately, issuing orders that the crew of the adventure was not prepared to execute.
	“alex! Dive! Dive! Get out of there!” He shouted at morgan. Alex was already acting. Alex extended her power to its greatest magnitude and gripped her ship and crew mates in a psychokinetic field. Morgan was shocked as her mother’s mind seized absolute command of an area in space as large as jupiter. An instinctive, and usually perfect defensive mechanism. Within that sphere, time and space obeyed her will, and by design, anything of a threatening nature was forcefully repelled by the field. Morgan had never imagined a field so vast and intense. 
	the barrage was violent and sudden. Alex trembled as she realized that they were all still alive. What her mind had experienced was as brutal and invasive as rape, but she had been able to absorb the shock. Through gritted teeth, she told the captain that it would be a good idea to run away as fast as possible. “dive, jack,” she grated, “dive as deep and as far as you can make her. Once this bastard figures out my limits, we are going to get smeared all over the quadrant!” 
	alex, turned her eyes back out to space and saw something that almost defeated her. The object had been shoved away by her psychokinetic field, but from within it came a burning star. The object faded into steely darkness as this living furnace revealed itself. Alex felt it sear the skin of her pk field and then slowly puncture that body of thought. As she stared at its brilliance, she swore to herself. “how long, jack?” She strained. “i don’t want to rush you or anything, but they are coming in after us.”
	the captain told her that it would only take ten minutes to engage the drive from stand-by, and begin translation for dive. Alex stared at the alien, advancing slowly but relentlessly through her defenses. Descending on them like an angel of death. Very calmly, she admitted to herself that she was afraid. She stretched her abilities trying to slow him down. It was hopeless though. The raw power at the alien’s disposal was an order of magnitude greater than alex’s. Double a thousand times over what she could hope to manage. Morgan studied this situation carefully. She could tell that her mother could get away, if she abandoned her ship and her friends. She might even be able to grab her friends, and possibly even the ship, and teleport light years away in the blink of an eye. But if she did that, there would be an instant of vulnerability, when her psychokinetic defenses would drop. Not much chance that it would miss such an opening.
	morgan, unable to think of what else she could do, extended all the power she could spare to her mother-self. Morgan did not dare suggest that alex flee. Her mother had no intention of leaving her crew mates to that thing’s mercy as long as she had the power to do anything about it. If there had been more time, a way might have been found to take advantage of alex and morgan’s dual foothold in reality. If there had been just ten minutes, the ship could have made a crash translation. In the interface the adventure could easily lose herself. 
	alex held out for an eternal seven minutes, as the forces generated from the alien threatened to crush her mind. Morgan cringed as the strain began to burn out synapses in alex’s brain. Alex had to give up ground faster and faster as it brought the focus of its power to bear against her defenses. Alex was drawing all she could from her daughter to repel the thrusts of telepathy against her mind. For every mistake she made, it reached through her defenses and slaughtered one of the crew in front of her eyes. Inevitably it burned through the hull of the ship and approached alex. The few survivors huddled close to her as her defenses were engulfed and compressed, her sphere reduced to a small corner of the bridge. Now, in plain sight, this strange being transformed, taking on the form and features of alex herself. As if alex were somehow destroying herself. As it drew close, it burned like the heart of a star. Alex adapted, but the last of her friends perished and evaporated in her arms. 
	morgan had lost control of her body by this point, and her mind fused deeper into her mother’s as she devoted her existence to the preservation of the person she loved more than life itself. Alex had done her best, and she would have fled at last, but she discovered that the entity’s power had penetrated the interface to surround her at every accessible dimension. She was cut off from everything but herself. Alex was helpless as it finally touched her. It took her into it’s arms. As if it literally were the heart of a star, alex felt the crushing weight and searing heat that seeped into her at that final embrace. Cell by cell, she could feel herself being torn out of her flesh. Somewhere in these final moments, the last barriers between mother and daughter collapsed. As one mind they felt the agony of her body burning away in layers as her resistance was overpowered. She focused everything in one final bitter rebuke. Her dying scream pierced the monster’s soul like a searing white hot nail. Her destroyer was staggered for a moment, and she held herself in a final embrace. As one mind she felt the searing orgasm of death as everything that was alexandrea erin sinclair—beloved mother and goddess to a shattered morgan eve—was annihilated in the flesh.


CLIMAX	I	The moment of truth. Her innocence came to an end when she was only eleven years old. The truth about psionic research, the government cover-up, the use of psionic ability by the government to develop technology for the exploration of space and all the other experiences and memories of her mother’s life exploded through her mind at the instant of her death light years away. The last coherent moment returned to her. The bridge of the Adventure slumping around her in the awesome heat of the alien’s presence. The monster, wearing her own face, was shaking off her one desperate blow and focusing its power for the coup de grace. For a moment she held herself in a final embrace and then she felt the searing orgasm of death as everything that was her—her mother—was annihilated in the flesh. She felt her—her mother’s?—last thoughts shifting up into the interface and tried to hold herself together. She had been one mind existing in two bodies when she—her mother—died. But the horror did not end with death. After the shock wore off she realized she still had an anchor back to reality. A bridge across which she could retreat and survive.

		That moment was just one tiny part of the human cost of Earth’s first encounter with an alien intelligence. Her childhood was shattered by the death of her mother. She relayed a report of the Adventure’s destruction, while drowning in a lifetime’s worth of her mother’s memories. Her autistic withdrawal lasted for about a year.

CLIMAX 	II	To reveal what that last instant had done to her—or what she had done at that last moment—was simply too terrifying. Her guilt had already condemned her within. When they had guarded her against suicide, she thought, surely they must know! Eventually she realized that, while they had detected her suicidal thoughts, they had not uncovered what had given birth to them. A wave of self hatred thrashed in her soul. The torment of a mother at realizing that she had devoured her only daughter to survive. The angst of a daughter who knew that, in desperation, and out of inexperience, she had consumed the one person she loved rather than let her go. A mind polarized by guilt, each side trying to save the other by taking the blame. Only the love between and underlying her shattered parts held her together. If she could just find a way to resolve the unbearable guilt! If there were just some way to absolve her soul! 

CONCLUSION	Her hands fisted. If only I could trust anyone enough to talk about it. How many times has she told Dreyfus, Powers and Craig that they didn’t know what they were asking? Of course they did not know! To seed suspicion of her guilt in others, to face the growth of their condemnation as well, was beyond contemplation.


									

12 - 17		Her recovery took longer, about five years. She had to deal with all of the secrets bared by her mother’s memories. Like, she never suspected—until the moment her mother died—that one of her responsibilities was to destroy her, should she ever prove mentally unstable; inclined toward violent, or abusive behavior. She found it amazing that she or any other child on the reservation survived growing up in light of that discovery. But, as artificial as life on the reservation proved to be, she realized that it was only part of a greater effort intent on assuring that the world at large never had to deal with the fact that she was one of the most dangerous human beings ever born. 

She was incapable of feeling any awe about the “ingenuous way the government exploited the awesome potential of mind to make practical interstellar travel a reality”. 

Deep space explorers had been commissioned with FTL drives developed more than thirty years before she was born. It was an established fact to her, and she grew up in the exploited part of that equation.

Before the tragedy, Craig had not really paid much attention to her. He had always been cool towards her, it was as if her existence was an annoying inconvenience. She was not a person to him so much as an object, and he devoted most of his energy to ignoring her whenever possible. When she became a crucial part of the project, he had dealt with her, but it seemed to pain him. He didn’t really figure into her memories until then. She thought the real change was in her.

Morgan was not capable of conveying how deeply she experienced the death of her mother aboard the deep space explorer Adventure. What Morgan painfully managed to reveal during her convalescence was classified and restricted to the highest levels of bureaucracy. 

									

If experiencing the death of her mother had not been bad enough by itself, this horrible union of their minds also destroyed her childhood. The truth about psionic research, the government cover-up, the use of psionic ability by the government to develop technology for the exploration of space and all the other experiences and memories of her mother’s life exploded through her mind at the instant of her death light years away.. If anything, that revelation inspired her anguish to turn into rage against the project. She could not deal with what she learned. They had created an ideal place for her to grow up—far better than the civilian world outside it. They had given her a perfect childhood and it had turned out to be a carefully crafted lie. Among the terrible secrets she never suspected were hidden in her mind, which became mine, was that one of her responsibilities was to destroy her, should she ever prove mentally unstable; inclined toward violent, or abusive behavior. She find it amazing that she or any other child on the reservation survived growing up, in light of that discovery. But, as artificial as life on the reservation proved to be, she realized, in time, that it was only part of a greater effort intent on assuring that the world at large never had to deal with the fact that she was one of the most dangerous human beings ever born.. But she knew it now. That knowledge opened her eyes to a lot of people, and especially to Craig. Craig was afraid of her. He was jealous of her. As she rebelled against the betrayal she felt on the part of the project, Craig struggled more to assert his authority over her. The more he tried to break her to the bit, the more she threw him off. She didn’t hate him, but he provoked a large measure of her rage. He was too damned stubborn about having his way with her. She didn’t know why. She didn’t know what he wanted from her. She could never figure it out. Whatever he wanted, it rubbed her the wrong way. Her instincts always warned her away from him.




   
