Daughter Selves

A Revelation, Apprehensions - Ember, Zhan -
Ember was picked up by ASIA agents, and brought to Ao’Ajeo. At first fearing for her life, she learned that she was being called on to present the evidence of a hostile alien power, by projecting her memories of her mother’s death. The presentation was held before the first joint assembly of human and avon authorities in two hundred years. The strain of revealing this traumatic event compounded the strain she had been under holding off the onset of heat for the past year. Ember collapsed on her way to meet with her father on Ao’Ajea. 

Phoenix Ember Nin: Phoenix wondered if she was being delivered to her own execution. The morning after her graduation, Phoenix had been picked up by a pair of ASI agents and escorted off the reservation with out explanation. She did not think she had done anything wrong, but since when did that matter?

In the weeks approaching graduation she had begun feeling increasingly drained and lethargic. She had also experienced a heightened sensuality and almost constant state of arousal. Phoenix had fought off the symptoms of heat during the last year of competetion, but had been forced to withdraw from the gymnastics tour at last when the strain shattered her control over her psi, bringing the ASIA down on her head. 

She had been a fool to assume that she had seen the last of these terror trips. 

The three day long drive had given her plenty of time to dwell on the circumstances which had brought her to this disturbing pass. Questions had been raised in the past challenging her ability to control her power. She knew what would happen to her if those doubts were ever substantiated. She wondered who would notice if she never returned from this trip. Phoenix was an only child.  

As if they would give her this much time to think is they intended to kill her. Her guess was that the Aegis Security and Investigations Agency had simply assigned a couple of agents to escort her to her step-father who would be able to return her back to her home on the reservation, or at worst her mother’s home on Ao’Ajeo. 

Phoenix Change Nin: Her mother died in the service when she was barely eleven years old. While Change had been a loving parent, she had also been very private about her history. Inspite of the rapport they shared, Ember had never really known much about the woman who had given her birth, and in whose image she had been conceived. Ember understood that she had been involved in human-avon relations; to the point where she had spoken the language and adopted the culture at home. Alien as both were to the humans she grew up with, she had become accustomed to it before she could speak. 

Kevin Zhan: Her step-father had accompanied her when the death of her mother and the awakening of her psionic ability forced her relocation to a psionic reservation. At the time she had been with her step father on Venus, so that was where she was stuck until she became licensed. Within two years the Aegis Security and Intelligence Agency (ASIA) discovered that she was a full spectrum class III active and immediately drafted her into the Avatar Program. In the four years of accelerated learning and intense psionic training, she was also studying an exotic form of martial arts under her father. 

As a psionic, she faced a minimum of eight years in the armed services to earn her license to practice psionics outside of military or reservation jurisdiction. In spite of her initial despair, she was actually looking forward to her term in the navy, and compared to what she had just gone through, the Academy sounded like a dream.

 
A Revelation, Entourage

(^_^) 										

Phoenix reached her unnamed destination to confront several representatives of the three agencies that defined the existence of psionic actives within the Aegis. The Psi Corps, which had forced her relocation, was an integrated—more or less invisible—military service branch. More so than the Marine Corps, but it still operated under the wing of the Navy. The Psi Corps drew its personnel from the growing population of psionic actives within the interstellar nation. The Aegis Security and Intelligence Agency drew its own psionic resources from sports and culls of the Psi Corps. Psionics with unique or exceptional abilities. Phoenix recognized six of the avatar recruits from her class—two young women, and four young men. 

Anastasia Neve Kohler:  

Morgan Erin Wildmuir: 

Christian Allan Temple: 

Mason Damon Drake: 

Michael Thomas Kinkade: 

Emberander James Maxwell: 

The seven of them were not new to the Avatar Project. For six years, they had been a “resource under development” at the Olympia AP facilities in Washington. There were ten other actives in the room—among them her step-father—all of whom were avatars serving out their military tours. The two she remembered most were Martin Cannon Craig, and Kevin Zhan—for opposite reasons.

Once they were all seated, they were introduced to the authors of the Avatar Project. They were told that they had been assembled to form the entourage for a diplomatic mission to the Ao System. 

Events related to the destruction of the heavy cruiser Adventure had compelled the Imperial Court on Ao’Ajea to initiate the first formal dialogue since the signing of the Treaty of Ao (See details of the First and Second Wars of Contact). 

Phoenix understood the significance of that announcement. The thought was deeply disturbing. But she was delighted to put that off when she considered what her “graduation present” was. An all expenses paid vacation to Ao’Ajeo—an exotic world, whre she once had lived with her mother—and the only world in the Aegis with immunity from the Control Acts.


Kevin Zhan invited her to dinner—to celebrate their reunion, and to address a concern she had regarding her ‘aberrant behavior’. By the time they met up, their ‘evening out’ had turned into a full departure. She arrived at his office, and when he met her, he escorted her to a flyer. They proceeded to the starport, and caught a shuttle to the L5 station. No time was wasted. By that evening they were on a ship bound for Ao. 

In a way, it was reassuring to find herself back under the wing of her childhood mentor. She waited until they had a moment of privacy to talk to him about her strange manifestation. She described the confrontation, and the state she had been in, and then confessed to having had these dreams several times before.


During the interplanetary hop, her father explained the politics of the situation. Certain members of the establishment opposed the idea of welcoming a race of psionics into the Aegis. These were the same factions that had forced the Control Acts through the senate, and which constantly complained about the military training and government licensing of psionics. The government had long defended its actions, quietly assuring the opposition that there had been compelling reasons for the present psionic agenda. 

Active ASIA agents were known as avatars. It was only appropriate. Avatars were the closest thing to gods the human race had ever known. They were not, however, the closest things to gods that existed in the universe. As Phoenix knew better than anyone. Which explained why they were sending her along in the entourage.


 
A Revelation, Arrivals

A few weeks later, as she gazed down at the world from orbit, she dwelt on a recent conversation with her father. It had taken her a while to figure out what he was talking about—he never gave her the answer to his own questions, leaving it up to her to puzzle it out. Phoenix had lived on Ao’Ajeo once before. It surprised her that she could have forgotten the little boy who had been her friend. She had been too young to really understand the reality of interstellar travel, but she had not been too young to form a strong attachment. It had torn her up to leave without him. As the memories blossomed she was ashamed to admit to herself how quickly, and completely she had indeed forgotten him—and then she remembered her dream lover. The phantom whose touch she had worked so hard to banish during past two fearful years. 

It seemed she had not forgotten, after all. She wondered—in embarrassment and amusement—what he would think if he knew what kind of fantasies her memories of him had inspired. Her preoccupation with the thoughts of her adolescent fantasy distracted her from the fact that her father’s comment had been inconsistent with her conditioned memories of a trip to Ao’Ajeo. In spite of her conditioning, she had not objected to, nor felt compelled to correct his—and now her—use of the wrong name.


It took almost no time for the thought to become an obsession. She paid no attention to the fever she woke up with the next morning. She noticed it rising as she got ready for the day. She tried to fight it, and when that did not seem to work, she tried to hide it. In fact, she hid it rather well. No one made any comment as they gathered in the station to await their shuttle, nor on the flight down. 

A car was waiting at the terminal. Arriving in haste, the two of them were put up and required to wait until the senate could assemble. The house they spent the night at was familiar to her. She had been living there the last time she saw her mother alive.It was a once in a life time vacation for her, but her father secretly applied himself to renewing and reinforcing his connections to the elite circles in the alien establishment. For a week, she was his date to evening functions with the heads of the interstellar government.


The presentation was held before the first joint assembly of human and avon authorities in two hundred years. The moment of truth caught up to her all too soon. It was disturbing, coming forth to reveal what only she and a handful of Aegis authorities knew about her mother’s death. Her mother had been an avatar, and she, her ship, and all hands had been lost to a single hostile contact that had intercepted them in deep space. 

What only Phoenix knew, and had kept secret for reasons she could not explain, was that her mother had recognized the entity that had murdered her. It had, in fact, been looking for her. It was a shock to learn that after six years the same entity had reappeared, leading an assault on a non-aligned world that had been negotiating with the aegis for membership. 

In light of this threat, the government had broadened the scope of the Avatar Project in the hopes of developing the capacity to respond to a direct assault against a member of the Aegis.


The strain of reliving that nightmare only compounded her silent suffering. She was forced to excuse herself when she could no longer contain her symptoms. Her father’s message caught up to her as she got into the car. As she settled into her seat, she read the letter from her father informing her that there was a slight change in their plans. The car dropped her off at the outskirts of a dahn. From there she was escorted through the avon city to the gate at its heart. One step across its threshold was all it took from there to arrive in Dragon’s Gate on Ajea. Phoenix was stunned by her admission. 

Ajeo, she knew, existed as a place where human and avon culture could mix—an open forum, a free market, and a social and political arena. It had been conceded to the Aegis after the Second War of Contact largely so that there would be no cause for any human to set foot on Ajea itself. It was their privilege to extend an invitation to outsiders—and usually for some imperative reason—but all who ‘accepted’ that invitation were bound to the codes and traditions of avon culture which they had ‘chosen’ to adopt. 

Phoenix managed to conduct herself properly through the introductions. By the time those formalities were over she was dizzy with fever. She wondered if she would make it to the rooms that had been prepared for them. In fact she did not, but she managed to make it into the middle of the dahn before she blacked out from the first full bloom of heat. The natives who came to attend her knew exactly what the problem was, however. It was a shocking way to learn that she was not human, and that she had come home.

 
A Reunion - Ember, Zhan, Amber, Passion, Ash, Dancer - 

Only a step seperated Angel’s Gate from Dragon’s Gate—and that from Dream Gate, at the heart of the imperial province … Ember collapsed in the middle of the street after crossing over from ao’ajeo … The strangers that came to her assistance quickly identified her ailment … Mistaken for Amber, the people who found her delivered her to her mother’s apartments in Dream Gate

Passion came down out of her sanctum to find Amber ... Unlike Dancer, she saw no more than anyone else, and yet she did sense something odd about Ember as she and Dancer drew close, a small commotion ensued as the maestro took charge and left the foyer with Ember in her arms ...

Amber returned from seeing Coal … Amber was home late and caught up with the news ... Passion’s siblings Pain and Pleasure, had arrived in Dream Gate … Dancer was busy arranging for three youths to stay in residence there … presumably while they attended to the needs of their sire’s house during her advancing illness ... Passion was lingering about the suite concerned about “Amber” who had been brought to their home with serious heat sickness … 

Amber and Passion encountered each other on their way in … Amber goes in to find an unexpected twin tucked up in her room … Without a word to anyone she storms out in a rage … 


Ember awakened in the home of Enigma D’Ara in Dream Gate. In the twilight of fever dreams, Phoenix had been preoccupied with thoughts of mortality. After a bit she realized that she was not suffering from a normal fever. Then she remembered the last words she heard. Someone had said she was in heat. That was absurd. Humans did not go into heat. It was hard, however, to argue with her symptoms. The raging arousal, the listlessness, the fever—she honestly felt that she would die if she did not get laid. That need had broken a discipline that had kept her alive for the past two years. When she began to come to her senses, she could not say if it had been a dream, an intimate scene between Amber and Coal snatched out of her split twin’s mind, or if it had been the realization of a fantasy. Whatever had happened, the fever had broken.

Waking up in her mother’s home—attended by her mother—was by far a greater shock. There was no mistaking the woman who had nursed her through the first crush of heat, but the last time she had touched her mother’s mind, she had been eleven years old, sharing the experience of her death in the merciless depths of space. While Ember dealt with the shock of finding her mother alive—if somewhat transformed—her step father arrived in response to the message Enigma sent when she first recognized her daughter. Confronted with the fact that Ember was in heat, Zhan agreed to Dancer’s proposal to see her through her mnao.

In spite of the rush of relief and joy, she almost could not bring herself to forgive her mother for allowing her to believe she was dead for six terrible years. But her anger, at the thought of what her deception must have cost her father, forced her to speak. Her father appeared at that point and interrupted, reminding her that he was more than capable of addressing those concerns himself. 


Ember was left alone to sort her thoughts. She had grown up in two worlds. Growing up in the interstellar human civilization, but growing up avon none the less. Most of her life had been spent among humans, who regarded her and her kind as an exotic branch of humanity. Change raised Ember to appreciate and understand the values of both her native culture as well as the human civilization to which she had been citizen since before she had even been born. Her human and avon educations were demanding and not perfectly integrated, though she strove fiercely to excel to please both her peers and her mother. Ember was an extremely intelligent and adventurous child, with independent citizenship which gave her access to the nets, and her native psionic ability (telepathy, telekinesis and partial dominion) granted her access to the path. She was happy with her world the way it was. It had been a long time since she had given her biological origins any thought. Then she came of age. Forced by biology to confront her avon heritage, she found herself back on the world where her mind and soul had been deeply scarred by tragedy. 

 
Housemating… 

Ember was taken in hand by Passion, instantly relating to Enigma’s adopted daughter as an older sister. Ember had come into the sophisticated heart of society, where exquisite craft predominated literal technological advancement. Household life was full of subtle amenities, such as bathing. Washing was simply cleaning the body, bathing was relaxing and promoting healing and humor in the body. A bathed body was wrapped in house robes—never did one put on previously worn clothes after bathing.

The newfound daughter of the house was indeed a daughter, though her cousin could hardly believe it 'til Ember bared all. Curious, Passion probed Ember's past while assisting in bathing her. Oddly, though Ember had certain masculine traits, Passion discovered that Ember wasn't really much of a tom-boy. There was a reason behind the girl's peculiar androgyny, but Passion found the area too sensitive to pry into. Passion's probing caused a sudden flashback for Ember ... Warm and wet splash on her face ... There was blood on the walls … 

Passion was startled by the powerful image Ember projected. It forced her to remember exactly who Ember really was, and that brought back memories of her own. Ember  was found huddling in an airshaft after the massacre, and she was taken away from Ao’Ajea as soon as possible ... Passion asked her about her life in the Aegis. Ember had lived on ao’ajeo with her mother, until (at 11) her mother’s assumed death, when she was taken to Venus where her step-father joined her on a psionic reservation ... Change and Kevin Zhan had both had military careers, so she was often left in the care of Athena—a very unusual bioroid … between her step-father and the Avatar Project she became quite adept at physical and mental arts for her age


Avon hospitality ... In house robes, she seemed the most formal of daughters ... Ember and her father were received into the household and honored with the traditional feast ... Introductions were made in an informal reception before the meal, and the issue of what to do with each of them was raised … Enigma obviously had something in mind but said nothing on these thoughts, instead referring to the request made by her mother for hospitality for her daughter and son in exchange for their service to the athenaeum for a few weeks ... Pain and Pleasure were visiting their grandparent, the emperor, so they could not be introduced … Kevin’s and Ember's reception was private, among the intimates of the household only ... Her hosts were family of her mother’s and their intimate friends ... 

Ember was handed off to Pleasure, the sibling of Enigma’s adopted daughter, Passion, when she arrived at the end of the meal ... Hoping to confirm friendship between second generations of self ... Ember was shown around the athenaeum and talked about the time she had spent at Ember’s family’s domain of Teal, and learned Amber was sharing her room with her ... Room-mating


 
Encounters and Confrontations - Amber

That evening she was confronted by Amber, who returned home to find Ember installed in her room. Ember turned and found herself confronting her own image, a shock of recognition passed through her—different from the shockwave that passed through her reflection ... Amber and Ember both had to be talked into accepting the arrangements their parents had made.

Amber and Ember, thrust together as roommates … Amber ignored Embers comments on her room, refusing to explain the masculine/feminine dichotomy Ember observed ... Amber tried to explain her existance at that point. Her memories of early childhood were identical to Embers, but something had happened at some point and the two had diverged. Amber had awakened one night in the vast athenaeum of Dream Gate, as if from a nightmare. She hung around until she was noticed and taken in by the muses. She had manifested her psi, and was raised there in fosterage with Pain and Pleasure where she was the youngest of thirteen children growing up in the household … until she was found by her father. At some point she had learned that she was a split manifest and that her otherself was being raised by her mother in the Aegis. Only, she had assumed that her otherself was a boy. Confronting Ember had been a terrible shock ... fast friends, they were also natural rivals over identity—over Coal as well, in the days to come … an unquestionable attraction existed between them, as powerful as yin and yang, dragon and phoenix, aelyn and aeslyn … too much alike to be so diferent, equal and opposite … a strange repulsion, the closer they would get the more extreme the emotions between them would become … love and hate

Nightmares and Intrigue - Ember, Amber, Passion, Enigma - 

Prowling about, Ember was awakened by a terrifying nightmare—and the accompanying and unnoticed fit ... She slipped through the sleeping house out into the night. After wandering around the vacant estate for a few hours, Ember witnessed as Passion stole in during the night to appeal to her mother for a favor ... Events had unfolded, forcing ... Passion had committed herself to a dangerous path and she could not in conscience expose her siblings to it as well. In spite of having forsaken her duty to her house, in the hope that Phoenix, would fulfill the requirements of an heir, Passion would continue her training to represent avon in interests in the aegis. Passion was enlisting Enigma’s assistance in quitting her claim to D’Ava, and transferring it to Phoenix. Ember was about to retreat, to leave her mother and Passion in privacy, when she realized that they had been discussing matters about her, she could not pry herself away as the conversation shifts to a discussion of the requirements of mnao and their assessment of Ember’s ability to deal with them.... What she heard disturbed her and cast a shadow on her homecoming ... A discussion on the expected evolution of her sexuality ... Aeo ... There were things she had to learn about her body, or rather the whole concept of “body” ... Ember had spent her childhood largely among humans, and had developed a firm female identity ... She had always been something of a tomboy, by human standards, while she was growing up ... she missed the implication that being female was optional … However, the more she overheard about herself, and the time of choosing, the more apprehensive she became about her sexual identity ... The thought of being sex split like Pain and Passion was intriguing ... Disconcerting ... Hard to imagine, let alone believe. 

Phoenix was somewhat ill at the news that it would take the intimate embrace of her brother, or in this case her twin and other self, to break the crushing grip of heat ... She was startled when Amber came upon her, hiding under the eaves of her mother’s study.

Entering Each Other’s Confidence - Amber, Ember - 

Amber and Ember retreated to their room, where Amber attempted to answer Ember’s questions. Amber explained the purpose of mnao and the reason why it existed. If Ember did not pursue mnao, her body would comsume itself with heat. On the other hand, if she engaged Coal for mnao, she would inevitably become dependant on him, for heat would never end. As Amber expected, Ember was not excited by either option, so she revealed her secret, and explained that she could get her through mnao, and without any risk of “addiction” to a man. Ember was so stunned to see the reflection of herself become the reflection of Ash—an image of herself she knew but had never confronted before—she was not able to respond to the offer. 

 
Encounters and Confrontations - Pain

As morning came around, Ember encountered Pleasure, in the person of Pain, not realizing that she was confronting the male half ... They engaged in a little friendly competition to get each other’s measure ... Afterwards, proceeding to the baths, Ember was confronted with the reality of one person embodied separately in two genders ... the moment of naked confrontation was mutually embarrassing. After that scene, she was shocked to discover that Pain and Pleasure are two sides of the same person, a split manifest. Pain and Pleasure were split twins ...

Amber and Passion became friends when Passion, Pain and Pleasure were going through heat several years earlier, when she got caught in the middle of a fight between Crow and Raven over Passion


She came out of the baths and joined her father at breakfast. While they ate, she regarded him. Her awkwardness was shared by her father, Zhan, who had joined her in her mother’s house He was apparently non plussed to find her married to an exotic, and an exotic herself. Every day would be a lesson in being avon. Her human trained social reflexes were going to get her into some interesting and embarrassing situations. 

Her father seemed to have a better understanding of what they were getting into, and his questions, along with the answers he received, were very instructional. He was particularily curious about Passion, Pain and Pleasure, having seen the three of them at court. 

Ember was shocked to find that Passion, in a way, was another survivor of the massacre she had tried so hard to forget, but was never far from her nightmares. 

Passion had been nine years old when the mind of her mother—and her mother’s other-self—descended on her in the wake of their deaths, she remained sane, and continued to reside in dream gate ... Passion and Dream adopted each other when he mysteriously appeared following her parents’ deaths, and lived together in dream gate as father and daughter ... about six years later, Dream woke up from a nightmare transformed by the death of Change back into Enigma … Passion’s grandmother eventually adopted Enigma, who had long been considered a lost relative

Pain and Pleasure had inherited the minds of their archetypes, the chiyn heir of the emperor, roughly a year after they were born, but between the damage caused by the means with which they were murdered, and the youth of their avon’aeslyn bodies, they were more influenced by their new incarnation than their original one, growing up in fosterage rather than in close proximity the imperial court 

 
Encounters and Confrontations - Coal

Ember felt well enough to join her father on one of his visits to the home of the avon emperor. In the audience hall, her eyes were drawn to Coal. She recognized him, but did not associate him with his name or with the person Amber had been talking about the other night. 

Phoenix was pronounced fit to return to her father. As she rejoined the entourage, she did not know how to respond to their questions and looks. These were her friends, her colleagues, and her superiors. They had all considered her one of them—human—but what would they think if she revealed her true heritage?

When she arrived at the suite of apartments the entourage occupied within the embassy annex, she found herself the topic of a heated debate. Apparently her secret had been revealed at some point during the day’s negotiations. At least one of the commissioned avatars denounced her for a spy in their midst, and even her friends seemed uncomfortable with the facts that were presented. 

Phoenix did not know what to say. The room fell silent as they noticed her arrival. In spite of her proclaimed solidarity with the Aegis and its representatives, she found herself politely, but firmly shut out of their company. 

The admiral and the senior delegate took her aside, each reassuring her that their government did not harbor any doubts with regard to her integrity or patriotism, but seeing that she had established several contacts and appeared to be accepted as one of them she was in a unique position to provide the mission with vital feedback and intelligence.


That evening, Phoenix appeared in court with the rest of her delegation. 

It was awkward standing opposite her self—as Amber was standing to the emperor’s right as her Sword. There was a message in that. She understood by this point that under normal conditions she should have stood to Anket’s left as her Shield which made the statement twice as pointed. 

The absence of a Shield in a formal audience indicated hostile negotiations, and her presence among the humans turned it into an accusation of theft or deceit. By implication, then, the emperor was declaring that the humans had insulted her and avon tradition. 

It was also a gesture of trust. Her rightful place had been left open to her, which implied that the emperor was willing to trust her protection to a citizen of the Aegis. 

When had such a bold political statement been made without the utterance of a single word or thought? 

Her admiral, and the senior delegate, responded to the invitation with unmistakable delight. The burden of conflicting loyalties fell heavily on her shoulders as she crossed the floor to shield the emperor. 

As the evening wore on, she realized the importance of the negotiations—after all her government had gone through to hold on to her, it could not have been easy to give her up as a peace offering. She knew her worth as an avatar, and she feared the possibilities that her new position could invoke. She was trained as an elite soldier, a military spy and assassin. What was it worth to her government to have someone like her this close to the Avon’Dai?

As she stood alongside her people and tried to focus on the proceedings she could feel members of the avon delegation wondering what she had been doing on the human side of the room. Even the emperor herself was troubled by it, going so far as to call her aside as the meeting broke up. Anket lightly questioned her alignment, and Phoenix pointed out that she stood aligned with her sworn duties and commitments, and further stated that if there was any substance to the negotiations she had witnessed that day, then she had stood precisely where the emperor’s negotiations were headed—an avon existing within the Aegis, not apart from it.


Later, as she waited for her father to conclude his business with the emperor in private chambers, she was approached by Coal, who mistook her for Amber, with whom he clearly had some intimate relationship. Shocked at her sharp rejection of his advances, he stood in silence as she departed alone. 

As she arrived home, she was met by Enigma, who asked her how her visit to the court went. Ember described being molested by Coal, and Enigma had to tell her who Coal was, and why he acted the way he did. A normal male, the son of a courtesan and the emperor—and thus a cousin—Coal had been presented to Amber as a surrogate for her brother, to help her progress through heat. Amber and Coal went through heat together, suppressing the symptoms of heat for an entire year, but without triggering the self conception needed to come out of heat. Ember realized then the source of her gripping erotic fantasies. 


 
Rivalry—the girls, Ember and Amber—and a boy, Coal. 

When Lovers Become Rivals - Amber, Coal - 

Amber was confused by the way Coal was acting, until she realized that he had mistaken Ember for her. In defense of herself, she explained that Enigma’s daughter had returned from the AEA. Coal immediately realized who the girl he had molested was. Amber was a step ahead of him, though, announcing that Dancer had already asked her to see Ember through mnao—and now that Coal had made her jealous, she intended to honor that request. 

A Proposal - Ember, Coal, Enigma - 

Coal came to Enigma’s home to visit Ember. Enigma took Ember aside and tried to explain their history before she introduced them to each other. 

Enigma explained, succinctly. Phoenix, like her mother, father and twin brother, was avon. Enigma had been on the run from one of the enemies of their race when she had fallen into the hands of the human authorities. 

Phoenix and her brother had already been conceived, but their embryo had been forced into stasis by Enigma’s fear. Enigma explained the mechanism, and the peculiar nature of avon twins, before explaining how human scientists had ignored Enigma’s words, and forced the quickening of the embryo—force twinning it and altering it with genetic surgery. 

Everything had been done politely, but the fact was that the Aegis had used Ember as a hostage … when they had returned to the Aegis, their case managers had demanded greater control and influence over her development and destiny. 

She apologized for allowing Phoenix to believe in her death, but assured her that Kevin had known, and understood why she could not afford to pass up such a perfect opportunity to escape her Aegis masters, and see to the rearing of her other child ... so that Phoenix would be fully exposed to her native culture in at least one aspect 

Phoenix could not resist asking about that other child. Ember asked where Amber fit into the picture. Part of the story she ahd heard from Amber. Enigma had recognized Amber (at 13) for both who and what she was, and brought her into the household at dream gate, becoming a mother to the daughter she had not known she’d had

Phoenix (at this point her mother stressed the nuance by which her avon name was Phoenix Ember) had trouble accepting the idea that the two of them were in fact the same person in two bodies. 

Enigma insisted on explaining a few more things before introducing Coal. Apparently, she had guessed how her human shaped mind would react to the nature of this purely avon relationship. As Enigma put it, there are sometimes bizarre consequences to tampering with a soul’s physical and spiritual make up. 

That admission forced her to explain a few things about the mysterious origin of the avon race and the phenomenon of split-manifestation. 

Before calling Coal she entered her daughter’s mind and removed a number of blocks the Aegis edict had forced her to place in Avon Avea’s mind.

Enigma introduced them and then left the two of them alone. Ember began by saying that Coal need not propose helping her through mnao—Amber had already offered and she was inclined to accept. To her surprise, he explained his history with Amber, and  revealed that Amber was also an intimate part of his own effort to cope with being in heat, and would probably remain so. He posed the question, did Amber have a right to stand between them when she had both of them?

Coal had lived with Agony and Ecstasy for the first five years of his life, but he had not been in residence at the time of the D’Ava Massacre … after the massacre he was sent into fosterage the other children of the emperor … he was removed when it became clear that his mind had become entangled with Amber’s, Coal remained in the emperor’s house until he came of age … for a mother, Coal had the courtesan, Death, who had long been believed to be Change … he was given the best training and education that a ruling house could offer

 
Apprehensions Of Heat And Choosing - 

Ember avoided Amber and Coal, trying to come to terms with the question before her. However, neither of them wanted to be avoided. Amber took Ember to see her mentor, who listened to, and responded to Ember’s apprehensions. She talked to both of them about the natural order of events in an avon life, explaining how their nature required them to turn to each other to make it through each mating season. 

For a lyn avon, mating season was a time for choosing mates, a time for tasting compliments. Split-manifests, chiyn avon, could also choose and taste, but by their nature, they were already mated compliments. 

Dancer laughed as she described the paradox—their ancestors had been given the task of creating a race of whole individuals. In one sense they succeeded, save for the fact that the conception of a whole person resulted in the birth of a diune. In time, with perfect devotion, the two of them might one day be united in one mind and one body—but in practice very few were able to attain that ideal.


 
Complication—a legacy—and a mystery. 

Formal introductions, school and court… 

The nightmares, the prowling, her disturbed and agitated thoughts and emotions had driven her out of the warmth of her bed often in the past. Never more so than what she was experiencing of late. Questioning the wisdom of making a habit of night stalking, even as her roaming brought her under the eaves of another private conversation. This time the people meeting had almost walked in on her. Slipping out the only exit, Ember was trapped in an airshaft during Ara’s meeting with her adopted daughter and a man named Talon, who had come in the cover of darkness. This time she could not flee without giving herself away. The purpose of Ara’s visit was to ask her mother to provide a place for her husband and her younger children, so that Dancer could be present to help Ember through her mna. Ara agreed to make a place in her home for the idai, his children by Enigma, and her other children by contract to the emperor, in the hope that she would be regain a place in her granddaughter's heart. Passion's rejection of her claim to the D’Ava title significantly changed Ara's plans for answering Talon's challenge. What was at first a notion of an alliance and future reunion of Ava and Ara through Ember/Coal and Pleasure/Pain, had been strengthened by Passion’s refusal. Her intention to sue for betrothal now had to involve preparations necessary for Ember to bear the mantle of her house 

As before, what she heard gave her things to think about in the days following. Ember was largely confused by what little of the conversation she overheard. She reflected on part of the lie she had lived. Thinking provoked questions about what she had been willing to take for granted, but could not bear to hear spoken.

As she adjusted to strange new mental and physical realities, she also discovered that she was the principal heir to a noble title and an abandoned estate. - That she was to assert a claim to D’Ava and be married off ... Ember had never thought she would be introduced into her claim ... Since, as a courtesan, mother had no legal rights to her children, she would have assumed she had no claim on her mother’s house. When she pressed for a reason, she learned that, with the health of the Avon’Dai failing rapidly, several individuals had to dissolve their schools and dismiss their students—even their own children—to go to their emperor’s side. 

An Heir to D’Ava, Ember stirs things up…

Enigma and Ember were called in to see the Avon’Dai. In a more formal interview with the emperor, Ember was counseled by Enigma on the requirements she would have to meet in her education. Enigma was required to take up duties in the house and, along with Ember, enroll in school. Enigma was vai, so she expected to serve the emperor in the lists, but she was surprised to be asked to join her daughter in devotion to dao. The question of what to do with Ember was quietly appraised while the emperor also gave some serious consideration to Pleasure, given her presence in her mother's place, as heir. These considerations mold the direction the emperor takes with the conversation. If certain mixed messages were to be believed, the emperor would have special requests to make of Ember as well. She evaded both of them, simply hinting that Ember presented a possible answer to her present predicament. A few months had passed since Ara dispatched a letter to her recalcitrant daughter, Passion, pleading the urgency of house business. Ara had been given notice to retire as head of Ara, and her heir was still estranged. She feared a move to dissolve her house, and was getting desperate for a way to protect Ara from a preemptive strike. Unaware of an’s and Ember’s true relationship, Ara immediately saw Ember as a perfect mate for an. Her claim to the lost ava mantle presented an opportunity to restore the ancient avara heritage in a union with an. She had missed the opportunity with Enigma and Passion, and planned to correct that this time. She assured them it was nothing they need be worried about. It would take some work on the part of each of them to test that possibility.

Confronting school ... The first wave intrigue would be started by her entry into the school community. During this period when Ember settled in, Ara was considering a way to avoid naming Phoenix her heir. Phoenix was much too young to step into her promised role, and Talon warned her that the circle would not give her the time Phoenix needed ... Ember was a guest at Tear primarily for the purpose of entering a school for her mnai ... She would be introduced as mai o mna ... Ember's appearance on the scene upset an established social order among her peer group ... Ember would be a student-resident, studying dao until she was confronted by her mna. Ember could not help embarrass herself by stumbling over the protocols of the transition from mai. Mna’ai were not selected for initiation, they simply revealed themselves in av’yn, often to their embarrassment. The onset of heat was unpredictable, so all mai were prepared for what could come on them at any time, and thus what they would be expected to practice ... Sex ... The completion of mai, she was shocked to find, was the study of sex theory.

Friends and rivals ... Avon schooling ... Mao was default ... Everyone took it ... Because of her claim to D’Ava, Ember was dao, which encompasses the three ideals of avon society ... Enigma was educated in vao, and had earned the dual ideal of vai ... Mother and daughter would be surprised when Enigma was sued to take up dao as well ... Mnao was also a prerequisite ... Young love was sorely tested by mnao schooling ... Young couples could be broken up several ways by the onset of heat, whether they came on together, or in sequence ... Coinciding av’yn forced them apart under separate mentors for their intimate training and practice ... Couples rarely survived when one party came into heat ahead of the other ... In the event that interest survived jealousy, the experienced party had an unfair advantage over the other, in the relationship that formed ... Hence, coupling was a heated issue among mna’ai and mnai, and courting relationships was an intense and competitive aspect of mnao ... As mai’jenadao, Ember is an obvious suitor for an, for which reason she found herself in a confrontation with a mnai’jenadao during her visit to the public baths ... Ember recognized him as the very appealing young man who had so ingeniously ignored her in favor of an her first morning at school ... Ember was shocked as he casually shifted genders to confront her on an equal level ... Instead of being intimidated by his warning, she found herself unbearably aroused by the confrontation.

Ember was in for a rude awakening. With no hesitation, as if Enigma sensed that there was no time to waste, Ember was thrust into the thick of the local school community. Ember was already being pressed to acquire the qualifications to bear a house title. Her status as an artist of the anjenimai required only one discipline to complete for mai ideal. Word leaked at once that she would not specialize in body, mind or spirit, she was to enter dao upon completing mnai.

Due to some important family business, Pleasure and Pain had departed without her. They had assumed Ember would not begin at jutaicho that day. Without escort and introduction from her friend, for whom she was to carry a message excusing them from their classes.
 

 
The Ava Title - Two Weeks - 

Coming Out, A Social Introduction

Ember returns home late from xanadau caoi and catches up with the news. Her father and her older brother and sisters had arrived in her mother’s wake and taken up residence with her father’s house. Ember also discovers that Enigma, shin and shen were staying at jukaeyo with aet’idiamas.

Ember's mother and grandmother still barely speak to one another and Ember's grandmother would not abide the presence of Ember's father—who she feels failed her daughter. Raven didn't fail his daughter, however. Her childhood and youth prepared her to meet far greater damands than attaining the status of her noble heritage. Raven provided her with some of his own formidable martial skills encouraged her to develop far more of her native ability than her devotions could account for.

Ara finally stages a full formal reception for her grand children at the end of Ember’s first week. To Ara’s dismay, Ember turns up outfitted for her devotion, an unsheathed sword, which so strongly projects the illusion of boyishness. Ember, unnerved by the prospect of house formality could only fall back on the manners she knew from her disciplines—again not deliberately being misleading. The impressions on which she would soon be judged were formed this long evening among the official guests.

Av’s father, Raven, had inherited his family's house and estate during his absence. Pain was thus near, under his father's tutelage. Raven intends to name Pain his heir at the assembly the first day of the wend. Ara was appraised of these shifts by Talon. Talon reluctantly nods to her plans to name Ember before ennjeara was claimed by his illness.

Ember was informed by Ara to be on her best behavior just as her grandmother’s peers and the members of her court were introduced to her and her siblings. She was shocked to overhear the news of her uncle’s rapid collapse of health. She had never even met the man who was the current champion of her house. She was so distracted by the thoughts this spurs that she fails to notice the degree of interest and appraisal that was focused on her throughout the evening.

Coming Out, A Formal Introduction 

Ember's introduction into the court—for recognition of her right to title—starts a second ripple, expanding the sphere of disturbances and provoking a wider circle of interest and intrigue.

The day after her reception Ember was taken by the ear and dressed for a court appearance with her grandmother. She was dragged along in ignorance, at the considered design of her house head. Ember watches the proceedings with rabid interest until suddenly Ara steps out to bid a suit. Ara announces that due to the confirmation of her son’s mortal illness she had chosen a new heir. Ember sits mute with shock as Ara asks the court for its ruling on her grandchild whom they were introduced to at the reception. The court confirms her candidate and summons Ember to the floor. Ember steels her self to advance to the center of the hall and the assembly erupts into an uproar.

In the absence of her mother, Ember was a natural choice for heir. Ember had to be formally recognized by the exotic and imperial courts to bear the rights to the title and inheritance of her house. The board's initial assumption on seeing her during the reception was the same as everyone else's; certainly a boy, by dress and manner. However, the truth comes out rather embarrassingly which throws the hearing into confusion and results in a change of venue. It also causes a stir among Ember's new friends. 

“I don't know what you expected, I am just me, neh?”

The revelation that the heir presented was not male, as the court presumed, forces a recess to silence the commotion. The high court under qumase had no intention of allowing this influential house remain directly under the female line of ara. What the state could—and ultimately chose to—do was force Ember to advertise her self for suit and take bids for her marriage or defend her claim under the female inheritance laws from all comers through combat. In the face of the necessary compromise a daughter had to make to inherit, Ember furiously rebels. Standing in court, only just named heir to the house she rejects the issue of a suitor, forcing Ara to take a risk on her ability to fight her own fights.

Ember's uncle, Raven's twin, appears, contesting Ember's claim to the title of house ara, promoting his twin daughters by Enigma: Pleasure and kym. Because of the contract made between the houses of ara and avon, Pleasure and kym were considered to be legitimate daughters in the eyes of court law, giving them potential claim equal to a legitimate daughter by house law. Through Dancer’s action, conflict between house and court politics enters the question of who had claim to the title of house ara.

Naturally the state opposes all three daughters in favor of the legal [by anii law], firstborn and male heir, Pain. Ironically, Pain’s claim to his father's titles overrides any claims to his mother's. Because the marriage of Change to Raven was not formally the union of house ara to house avon, the creation of a powerful and influential house was averted. But promoting Pain as heir to both houses would unavoidably unite them in his lifetime. Recognition of this fact causes much hesitation among the heads of state to continue in their initial position.

As a result, Ember, as the chosen heir was at once the principal opponent and nuptial prize for any man who could win the title from her.

Unless Pain chose to enter the contest and take his own sister as a prize to get it, a union of avara and avon was forestalled.

Raven created an upset in the circles of house and court as he formally recognizes the legitimacy of his children. In essence, he tries to curtail further maneuvering around his son and daughter by granting full title to one of the avon houses to Pain, and apportioning part of his dominion to house ara’s domain.

An Unexpected Engagement

Phoenix accompanied her mother and the lord of the court to her residence when the evening had come to a close. The private interview that followed was nerve shattering. The Avon’Dai opened the conversation by asking Phoenix what she would do if her government ordered her to assassinate her. Things got more interesting from there. She even received instructions on how to carry out such an assassination in such a way as to absolve herself of any blame. When it became more than she could take, she begged for a sane explanation. Anket replied that if one was to be targeted for assassination, then the best chance for one’s survival was to thoroughly and completely convince one’s enemy that one has been assassinated. As for why she would arrange for Phoenix to commit such an act and get away with it, she simply said “I would not want to see my daughter-in-law be executed for doing her duty”. Phoenix Ash and Phoenix Ember had been promised, on the day of their birth, to the emperor’s split-manifest child and heir. Before Ember and her mother were excused, they were re-introduced to Pain and Pleasure, the proposed fiancées. Questions remained, such as whether Amber was a legitimate counterpart in such an arrangement—having apparently mastered the exotic art—or whether a surrogate for Ash would be permissable, say Coal for example. They talked a bit about Coal as a prospect, and Ember’s inheritance, lands and titles and such, but Phoenix was too upset to take it all in.

Conflict and repurcussions … As fast as she was adapting, she was in over her head in her native culture and it would lead her into a bloody confrontation. - Sex and death ... A kind of innocence ... The glimpses of life ... A memorable day ... Oblivious to her doom ... Recalled political undercurrents ... The withering of the family ... Kept oblivious to the death of ... An infamous day ... 

Ember’s promotion in court as the heir to D’Ava was what drew the attention of the va’av to her. They had not know that she had survived the last action they had taken to protect their interests. They had a private claim to D’Ava which they were desperate to protect, and which they dared not allow come to anyone’s attention. 

A Strangeness In Reflection

Ember had already decided that she was going to confront their nature head on. 

There was nothing in her experience against which to judge the situation on a moral or ethical level. 

In spite of her human values, she had already satisfied her concerns about the real dangers of incest, and she was not sure that having sex with a copy of oneself qualified as incest. 

One Identity, Two Bodies

One Soul

Class Mating 

Ember was in for a rude awakening. With no hesitation, Ember was thrust into the company of her peers. Almost out of habit, she was determined to enter as an enigma. In spite of Passion's and Amber’s protests, she defended her right to innocent misdirection; maintaining that it was not misdirection but part of her character—and what others interpreted was their business, not hers. But what she hinted disturbed Passion even more.

Sex Theory

A Taste of Things to Come

Ember all but immediately sorted herself out in the local school community. Enigma had outlined to her the priorities for her anin paths. Most particularly, she attached her to a mentor to save her from the disgrace of her illiteracy. By her third day in attendance, she had some idea of how things would proceed for a pace. Her new mentor took her measure and decided that Ember had all the qualifications necessary for a first sword, but as an heir she lacked the preparation for authority and leadership.

Among her new peers a growing crowd of friends, allies, competitors and such had begun to gather. Attention comes gradually but steadily around Ember—from muses and mentors, other heirs and nobles, suitors and seducers, artists of name, and even her own siblings as they catch up to her and events move on. 

Some of the boys—Ember's new classmates—that took exception to her enigmatic character and background began to push and test her. She was going to have to take her shirt off and trade licks with several of them to earn their respect. Given this cause, she reveals her hidden talent to more than a few witnesses. In her mind this was not pushing it too far. Like many people she had the aptitude to learn some of the more exotic disciplines of the body, but in this instance she allows peer pressure and her own unresolved feelings about her near rape to gravely compromise her judgment.

Ember was initially the object of va’avon investigation. The loss on their side had been very high, almost as high as the death toll of je’ara. Thus, while they had an idea of what had been intended in that long ago raid, they had to investigate the possibility that Ember had been converted. If she too was va’av, then their highest objective had been unwittingly attained. Unfortunately, when they confronted her, their analysis was enigmatic. They could sense something of themselves about her, but she seemed not to consciously recognize any of them. 

Sex Technique

 
Tasting

 
Choosing

Amber had not understood Phoenix’s anger at the discovery of her mother’s second marriage. When the matter came up again, she pressed her twin for an explanation. 

When she refused to talk about it, Amber took her back to their apartment. 

In the absence of someone they felt comfortable confiding in, they confronted the issue on their own. 

They had not meant to get into an argument, but once they had, it outlined the problem for them. 

Each of them had developed around a different set of beliefs and values. 

How could they be the same person if they each had a unique way of thinking?

Neither was willing to give up what they held sacred, but that did not preclude either of them from accepting the other’s perspective. 

If this situation had truly never happened before, it could only be due to the fact no split-manifest had ever been shaped by languages and cultures that were alien to each other. 

Phoenix made the first gesture, asking Amber to help her understand what it meant to be avon. 

She started with the aspect of their culture that she seemed the most unsure of, avon sexuality.

Bed Mating

Together Ember and Amber confronted the mystery of each other. 

It seemed more like masturbation to her, and she had never had a problem with that. 

The other concern was narcissism. 

They were fascinated by the strangeness in their reflection of each other. 

What had passed between them before had been pure passion and sensation, and neither really remembered the particulars. 

This time they progressed slowly, exploring the mystery in depth, allowing the realization to take firm root and grow. 

It was a strange and wonderful experiment, discovering the paradox of having one identity, two bodies and strangest of all one soul.

Sex Practice

She had never felt so happy, nor so frightened, and never had she felt such conflicting emotions about the same thing. She was in love, and could not deny that she was in love with herself—and vice versa. 

If they had not had such unique minds and lives, she knew they could never have untangled themselves. 

Amber pointed out that, for an avon, that was the way it was supposed to have been. 

It was abnormal for a split-manifest to exhibit such distinct identities. 

Amber talked her into going with her to consult some people about it, to ease both their concerns.

 
The End Of Innocence

To her surprise, they did not go to see Amber’s mentor. 

Amber took them to see his class mates. 

When she saw them, she understood why. 

The group of young men and women—hardly more than boys and girls—were all split-manifests. 

That brief encounter convinced Phoenix that Amber was telling the truth when he said that they were abnormal for a split-manifest. 

In an effort to preserve her other’s reputation, Phoenix challenged their assumptions about her incompetence. 

By default, she had challenged the school. 

A time was named for her to meet the vai kume champion, and captain of the house guard in the circle. 

Amber dragged her away before she could get herself into any more trouble. 

Not having found an answer to their problem, they went looking for Dancer. 

Phoenix wondered why they were going to her mother’s residence. 

After meeting Annshin and Annshen, she discovered that they were her younger siblings by Enigma and Dancer—neither of whom were present.

 
A Time Of Choosing, A Time Of Tasting

Thoughts Of Sex And Death

As soon as they were alone, she turned on him and demanded to know what other surprises were waiting for her. 

Amber shrugged and told her sternly to go to bed and sleep. 

She had to fight in the morning, and sitting up all night arguing would not help her in the circle. 

If he had told her, there was no doubt she would have been up all night agonizing over it. 

She could not get him to budge, so eventually she did fall asleep. 

Her uneasy mind woke her up early, and drove her out of bed. 

She wandered alone, lost in thought, not even aware that her feet had brought her into the circle. 

She was gazing at the sunrise when the attack came. 

Her confidence was proven justified, when she practically executed the champion in their duel. 

The Initiation - One Night, Mna

Later in the day Ember received a visit from her mother, her first teacher. Her preparation was tested and she was given leave to fulfill her mna. It was both exciting and disappointing. Ember was poised on the threshold of the most sensative initiation in her life, and it would come among strangers. 

Initiation, A Public Ritual Of Opening

From there, events were taken out of her hands. 

She was bathed, anointed and led to the alter for her initiation—a public ritual of opening. 

Before the eyes of the entire community—and the delegation as well—Amber and Ember lost their ‘virginity’ to the expert ministrations of Dancer, whereby they became adults and were granted sexual freedom.

Coming of age was bitter sweet for Amber. Opening herself to and mastering her sexuality was the last phase of her second devotion. There would be no point in starting her third devotion. All of her achievements, all of her ability in her first devotion slipped out of her grasp without her crutch. In another year, she would face the test and she would die. Whatever was wrong with her mind, it would cause her to fail the one test that mattered. Her dream would end in death. Why couldn’t she just give up the dream? She had excelled in her second devotion. It almost made up for the failure of her childhood. It also opened the doors to the worlds beyond. It gave her an option she had flirted with for ten years. All she had to do was leave everything behind and take up human ways and human war.

Sexual Freedom

The reaction set in when the two of them were alone again. It was difficult for her to accept what had happened as a normal and natural occurrence. Intellectually, she understood that for an avon, it was. That did not change the fact that such a display went against her character and left her feeling lewd and shameless. What bothered her most was that it had not bothered her to perform the acts in the circumstances she had, she just did not know how to face herself after the fact. 

Her agitation deeply alarmed Amber, who could think of nothing to do but hold on to her and whisper reassurances. Ironically, her reaction only made her more committed to learning and perfecting her sexual techniques and the protocols of tasting, choosing and bed mating. 

Amber had not needed to tell her that the initiation had made them subject to open courting. 

Amber, for her part, still found her twin’s ‘humanity’ incomprehensible. 

Whenever the two of them stood Sword and Shield, she spent all of his time studying the humans, seeking insight into the culture that had so warped her mate and compliment.

 
The Embrace Of Self - One Morning, Light And Shadow

For the first time, Ember was willing to confront Amber in her adopted male aspect. Mnao had to begin sometime … Ember confronts her self over her sexuality. Technically, it was harmless. One of the oddities of split twins, they cannot sexually conceive together. Their gametes annihilate each other upon fertilization. On a moral level, it was as acceptable as masturbation. Also, if she could believe what she had been told, it was the only perfectly safe sex—that was truly sex—one could have. Ironically, sexual activity between split twins could provoke an asexual self conception in the female, and prevent asexual self conception in the male of the pair. At times when there is more than one embodiment of an individual, self conception only results in seeding—the production of a pearl, or dormant embryo. Once she got over the shock, she took it in stride, and indulged herself. In her own embrace there was release—only her hunger returned both sharper and deeper. Trying to be philosophical about it, she did worry about dangers inherent in what she had become.

Embracing Heat, Embracing Herself

Mna’ai dealt with the issues of intimacy and boundaries intensively ... Confronting them directly during their apprentice ship to mnao ... And again in their role as mentor to other mnao ... The more she explored the fire within her, the more it changed her, striving to dominate and redefine her. The passion, her sexuality, had always been there, but—as if it were a stranger within herself, some prisoner—it sensed the approaching day of its release. The more she learned of the possibilities and uses of herself, the more defined its sense purpose became. 

Phoenix wandered the darkened streets, her mind preoccupied with thoughts of sex and death. She was having a hard time coming to terms with the forces that had reared up as the defining aspects of her life. It was hard to accept that everything she had thought she was had been a lie erected on threats against her life. 

Confronting that—even more that losing her virginity to a male version of herself—signaled the end of her innocence. Should it surprise her that her peers questioned her loyalty to a government that had threatened and lied to her?

Was it strange that they excluded her from their company, charging her to spy on those she had just learned were her true people?

She arrested her thoughts as she felt the approach of her mate and compliment. 

When she asked what she was doing, she confessed that she was thinking of looking for another place to stay during the negotiations.

Holding On to Old Ties

Phoenix was prompt and precise in her reports to her superiors. Her insight was proving invaluable to the delegation. She was required to describe and explain her actions in detail, which made it more difficult than simply spying on the Avon’Dai and his household. It was like she was spying on herself. Based on what they had seen, or heard for themselves, they had to know how embracing her native culture was impacting her. It was a relief to find out she had not lost or alienated her friends among the avatars. Assets within the AEA intelligence community came in to possession of the navy’s intelligence, and certain other facts regarding Ember’s peculiarity. The intelligence on her came under consideration for potential use in a long range program to suborn the avon leadership. Ember was flagged as a pawn who could become queen. The initial move, causing Ember to be recognized as the heir apparent to the Avon’Dai, would provoke a religious controversy that intimately threatened some of the most powerful houses on Ajea. Indirectly, Ember’s very life would be shattered by the persecution brought on by disclosure of her forbidden conception. 

Ember was unwittingly prepared for the role assigned to her by the hidden conspirators. The immense terran influence of her upbringing was initially seen as an assurance that in the long run, when she became Avon’Dai, she would transmit her terran ideals throughout her native culture. Only a perceived necessity that, in order to maneuver her into that future role, she would have to be carefully indoctrinated in avon culture prevented them from arranging for Ember to become legally separated from Enigma. Subtler influences were employed to off-set her native influences. Inevitably, they would expose Ember to direct influence at a later date. By the time her biology forced her to return to Ajea, the bulk of the ground work had already been done. Ember never knew, and she believed herself to share the beliefs of her people, not even realizing what a perfect forgery of an avon’ai she was. The others had known her history at the Academy, so they had considered her a pervert long before she had been nailed in public. They were at least grateful that her intelligence was ensuring that they would all be able to leave when the negotiations ended. The time she spent becoming avon, they spent pretending to become avon. None were pleased to learn that they had to complete the same rites of adulthood, and qualify for a rank of nai or better to be able to leave their adopted home and travel into wild or hostile territory—as human space and the Aegis were considered to be by Ajeans. 

 
The Concept Of Other - Mnai

Because she was standing Shield, Phoenix was required to spend as much time practicing with the house guard as Amber. 

Few comments were directed at her, but she picked up enough to know that Amber owed his comrades for past sexual favors, and it was obvious that the young men expected payment in kind. 

Part of her accepted his debt as hers, but it was too difficult to bring herself to assume that debt. 

Especially with the pressure that she felt under the surface when ever she was around them. 

Amber tried to soothe her anxiety, saying that it was both normal and essential that she take advantage of this time to practice at sex—while she was in heat it was harmless. 

Each time she agreed and resolved to do it, but as before, when she started to approach it, her nerve would break and she would be extricating herself from increasingly embarrassing situations.

The Apprehension Of Sexuality

Ember found herself caught between two worlds. Ember once placed all her hopes for the future in her AEA citizenship, and the promise of academy training followed by career in an aegis service. Her plans did reach as far as deciding whether to apply for a military contract and serve in the navy, like her mother, or contract for a longer technical or government contract. 

As an exotic growing up in a human world, she had faced serious obstacles to creating a future for herself. The first obstacle, of course, was herself. When she had been forced by biology to confront her avon heritage, she had found herself way out of her depth among her own people and learning who and what she was had become her only hope for survival. Unable to find a sponsor to the academy, Ember might be forced to trade on her status as an exotic noble. 

 
The Time Of Choosing - Arla Liymb

A Time of Choosing

Ember and the others soon found themselves in the midst of arla liymb. Like ot or not, it was the time of choosing for her mnao. Thoughts of her mnao still made her uneasy, and she resorted to the challenge to deal with the attentions her popularity engendered. She had no reason to think that this decision would damn her in months to come. 

On her return to school following the four days of wend, Ember was confronted at the gates by her new acquaintances. Ember’s explanations were curtailed by the added interest in her which comes into focus there at the gates. Among the suitors were muses and adepts who had an apprehension of something more than politics afoot in her affairs. Of course all of this political maneuvering was but an annoying distraction to Ember and her peers; who honestly care very little about all this grown up nonsense.

The issue among the teen peer group becomes; who would Ember love? Who's love would win her? Compared to all those raging hormones, what else could possibly be important? While it may seem that all the adolescent sense/sex, affection/love insanity of Ember and her friends was ridiculous or even irrelevant, the fact was that these powerful drives greatly shape the course of even the most sober and serious events. In a sense this was all a conflict between Ember's generation and the older generation over who's view of reality would prevail.

Because she was standing Shield, Phoenix was required to spend as much time practicing with the house guard as Coal. Few comments were directed at her, but she picked up enough to know that Coal owed his comerades for past sexual favors, and it was obvious that the young men expected payment in kind. Part of her accepted his debt as hers, but it was too difficult to bring herself to assume that debt. Especially with the pressure that she felt under the surface when ever she was around them. Coal tried to sooth her anxiety, saying that it was both normal and essential that she take advantage of this time to practice at sex—while she was in heat it was harmless. Each time she agreed and resolved to do it, but as before, when she started to approach it, her nerve would break and she would be extricating herself from increasingly embarrassing situations. 

When Ember's girlfriends encourage her to turn out in style, many of Ember's male friends twist their necks out of whack. A couple of such nights out cast an allure over Ember that prompts a number of challenges to her right to title—with their eyes on the prize, the way the contract was traditionally written.

Further investigation by the va’av was inconclusive. Ember was, and was not, va’av. They attached someone to her, a suitor in pursuit of her hand. While in the person of Ember, he found little encouragement, he was startled to find Amber as natural a companion as other va’av. It would take little effort to nudge Amber into betraying Ember as a whole to them. Somewhat confident that Amber was a child of possession, they only needed to penetrate Ember to test her. Once they understood the resistance of that aspect of her personality, they could perhaps trigger her conversion. Or possibly just kill her right there and resolve the problem that way. 

 
The Arena  

Putting It to the Challenge

As a daughter, Ember's right to title was widely questioned even though she was still only the heir. Though it was unusual for one with heir status to be challenged, it was permitted on the same grounds as right to title. Lack of confidence in the daughter's ability to bear the name and mantle of a house was the official basis for issuing a challenge. The other, unofficial reason was an issue of suit. A suit made against a daughter was a bid for the take over of a house and its lineage. Of course, this was not the only pursuit of Ember going on either.

The prowess of Ember's defense of herself and her house draws growing attention and malice. The factors arrayed against her begin to perceive that it might be easier to remove her than it could be to control her. Even as the pieces converge to make a case against her, she unintentionally engineers her own fall.

Ember struggled with her insane attraction to her brother as arla liymb went on. He felt it too so he defeated her in challenge and shared the taste. While still in her arms, he warned her that he would not—he could not—accept her—or her sister’s—mnao, and advised her to find another for her choice. 

Ember found a mate and mentor in Coal, her friend—and often co-conspirator, along with Pain. Coal only had a year on her, barely qualifying for her choice, but his unusual maturity and empathy compensated enough. Together, they returned to /the imperium/ where her father had been named avon’dai. Sometime after her return, she noticed that the fits had started again. They had not hit her since the year after the deaths at tegal ni hayr.

Things calmed down into a sweet routine that lasted through into her seventeenth year. She learned that grandmother was considering her as an heir to ara’dsai. The question, of course, being whether she could pass the vai test, which all knew to be the one real obstacle to her chances of ever becoming dai. Most likely the mantle would pass to one of Pain’s twins, or her own twin. Of course Pain seemed to be in line for the mantle of avon’dai after his father, and one of his twins would stand a fair chance of inheriting anx’dsai from their paternal grandmother, if the rumors about Dancer being out of favor with his mother’s house were true. Ember was less concerned with the succession gossip than she was with the representative of the aea staying at aodeth yn caoi.

Coal had taken a marked interest in her and with tact and honesty began to win some of her trust. He approaches as a friend. Most of the boys she had gained respect from now only saw her as a girl to suit—Ember could not comprehend this change in people she thought of as friends.

The change in attitudes spreads to the families of her friends and allies. Ember carries on her face the legacy of the ara bloodline. And she, poor girl, had no idea what could possibly interest them in her. She had no idea who trying to help her, and no idea why so many seem against her. There was no guessing what rumors passed down in families that took part in the purge.

Ember and her strange androgyny continued to provide a tumultuous focus for the local youth. 

The Taste

Ember—Ember struggled with her insane attraction to her two friends as arla liymb went on. They felt it too so it was not surprising when he defeated her in challenge and shared the taste. While still in her arms, he warned her that he would not—he could not—accept her mnao, and advised her to find another for her choice. Ember found a mate and mentor in Coal, her friend—and often co-conspirator, along with Passion and Raven. Coal only had a year on her, barely qualifying for her choice, but his unusual maturity and empathy compensated enough. Ember begins to extricate herself from the role she has been playing before it gets her killed.

Ember was becoming an unexpected protégé of the muses, Passion and Dance. It was within their domain to fulfill her anim training in the mnao and the anao. Unfortunately, it was a great disadvantage to be a mere exotic ideal in the company of those who patronize the muse. 

 
The Rape Of Ember

The Forbidden Touch

A virtual body double for the untouchable Passion, Ember might very easily find herself being pressed into use as the surrogate of coupling with the muse. Especially as a more sophisticated older crowd takes note of Ember's unique traits. Although she refrained from advertising her status she was approached and propositioned often. The evening she went south to file her application, she was stalked and cornered by a gang of young nobles. Irritated by her refusal, they tried to force her, scaring her into a panic. Something in her snaped during the attack and her attempts to defend herself became a slaughter. Ember fled from the scene, and almost forgot about it. Dancer caught her when she arrived at her home covered in blood and learned what happened. Ember begged him to let her skip the discipline, over which they argued violently. Dancer refused to grant her request, to which answer Ember rejected the discipline altogether. Furious, Dancer expelled her from the jentempas, refusing also to protect her from the wrath of the houses her victims belonged to. If not for a’nae, Ember might well have been caught and executed by the mob that came to the camp.

A Bloody Confrontation, A First Faltering Step…

Everything came apart in a moment the next morning. Ember was ambushed on the beach, and dragged into a cove. She had been in telepathic rapport with Amber when her assailants attacked. They had taken advantage of her open mind to stun her. The link was cut as Ember recoiled in shock. It took her a moment to realize that she was about to be raped. While uncommon, rape was not unheard of, and her unique condition had drawn a lot of unwanted attention. Training dictated that her first priority was survival. She was already withdrawing into herself, as she had been taught, when a horrible intuition seized her. Looking into her assailants’ eyes, she saw her death waiting. Having no time to verify her suspicion, she acted. Calling on her training she tried to break away, but in the struggle something inside her snapped, and she exploded into a blood red rage. When she came to her senses, bathed in blood, she confronted her handiwork in shock. Her life, her future, was ruined. 

A Bloody Mess

She hardly noticed the vai kume champion. She returned from the beach, half naked, bathed in blood and still gripping the sword she had wrested from her assailants. He took her swiftly into custody, and sent others on her path to investigate. They arrived to see one of their comrades standing in apparent shock in full view of the massacre. When one of them called out to see to the wounded, he rushed forward to investigate a mortally wounded youth.

Blade’s mount was dying. He had held on, waiting for someone to check on him. The vai kume, river, knelt at his side. Recognition was instant, and full of relief. Holding onto eye contact, he finally let go. The repossessed vai kume looked around at the others who had run to assist. He made no comment at the subtle seizures afflicting several of them. They were fully trained vai he noticed. Three of them gave a knowing nod in his direction as the bodies they treated died.

Enigma realized too late that somethiing was amiss. Her dread precognition was confirmed when a bloody Ember was brought in to her house. She contacted Asia, Ember’s friend in the delegation and crisply related the details of the incident and then broke contact. Enigma revealed only that she was an acquaintance of Ember’s and was in communication with her when the event unfolded. Asia contacted her superiors, who directed her to investigate the report.

Blade, the corrupted vai kume, and his newly possessed vai regrouped as soon as they could and sought out their target. Ember was in custody, being debriefed by another vai kume. His subtle efforts to get custody of Ember failed, and he was forced to admit that he was a witness to the event. It was close enough to the truth. It also meant that he would not be left alone with her. This would delay their objective, but he still had the advantage. Dismissing himself, he considered the status of his mission. He had been fortunate. His mount had shadowed him as always, and had been present when the other witnesses arrived. Three of his comrades had been able to break new mounts, but they still suffered from the deaths of their birth mounts, and would never assimilate the identity they has been forced to assume. He would not be able to use them in his immediate plans, but they would be adequate to prepare a new trap. It would be up to him to drive her into their trap. Fortuitously, he was the star witness.

Her Sanity Questioned

The night dress and warm bed made her think it had only been a nightmare. The cuts and contusions made her realize that it had been a taste of hell. Thankfully, she had no coherent memory of anything after her conversation with amaeo. Approval met her meek new demeanor, and some care was taken to ease her through the post traumatic shock. 

During her short convelescence, no one criticized or reprimanded her. Her chastizement had taken care of itself. The day after her recovery, Ember had been taken by the ear and dressed for a court appearance with her patron and mentor. She was dragged along in ignorance, at the considered design of the clan head. By this time her mind could open up again to Amber, allowing her to tell Ember she had been arrested. Ember relayed brief impressions of the ambush and it’s conclusion. Amber revealed that she had been ambushed too, and things were not looking very pretty for her either. Ember was just about to ask Amber what they had to do when she was collared, which broke the link. 

In the next few hours, the realization set in, the traps were double edged. In defending themselves, they had set themselves up. The attacks were staged to provoke the most violent response, but the people behind the plot could not have imagined the fury unleashed by Amber and Ember—in the grip of their traumatic memories—as the true nature of the attackers triggered a traumatic flashback to the D’Ava Massacre. Ember was arrested though she had clearly been the victim of a deadly assault, but Amber was arrested and accused of slaughtering her alleged attackers outright. 

Arraignment. 

Phoenix was publicly stripped and suspended of title pending the outcome of her hearings. She could tell she was being treated as a suspect, not a victim, and the implications of that frightened her. Her instincts told her she had done only what she had to, but clearly no one else saw that. Honesty was her only defense, but it suddenly occurred to her that with her ignorance of the avon covenant, honesty would only serve to convict her.

A Self Divided

Court. Things developed in the following days. The houses of Dragon’s Nest, representing their slain sons made the suit. Their surviving sons were surrendered for inquisition and trial, under the assurance that Amber and Ember would be made to account for the untimely deaths. Nor did it count in her favor that Amber, Ember and the Dragon’s Nest sons were all in heat. They were all titled heirs, but Amber was the most disciplined, the closest in ability to an ideal, making her more responsible for the outcome. A case was made that Ember also could just as easily have crippled or incapacitated her assailants, and the question posed to the court was whether she had been justified to kill in her defense. They stood accused of charges ranging from murder to breach of discipline.

Ember confronted herself … Amber … Ember breaks off in the middle of a sentence, her attention drawn to a commotion among the observers. Ember turns and finds herself confronting her own image, a shock of recognition passes through her—different from the shockwave that passes through the crowd.

Confronting something within her twin ... Something alien striving to dominate or displace her ... She was somewhat relieved to find that perhaps her problem was not some form of self-hatred or deep seated self-destructive impulse ... Whatever it is, it is damnably elusive ... unable to prove what she herself did not know, that a demon from her past was awakening from its exile deep in her mind and trying to over throw her from within, Ember is unable to act on her suspicion.

Consulting with others through the path, Ember learned that her AEA citenship offered no immunity or escape from the situation she was in. Because Ajea was not a full member of the AEA, the situation was diplomatically sensitive. While Ember was a citizen of the AEA, established precedent dictated that the AEA had to respect the covenant under which Ember had been convicetd and exiled. Nor was extradition possible, even if charges could be brought against Ember to justify such an attempt. After a mild reprimand for shutting her out, her mother gave advice and moral support to strengthen Ember’s morale. Whatever might happen, Avonlea believed her justified in her actions. She was surprised when they threw her brother-self into her cell with her, but relieved to have his shoulder to cry on for support. 

The deaths she caused defending herself from cold blooded murder disguised as rape—which Amber had been forced to deny in court, pressed into admitting she had consented to the affair, which meant that Ember had consented by default—damned her. In avon eyes, they were the same person. She could not comprehend her other-self’s thinking. 

To further damn her, she had also confessed that the only way she could have done what she had done was if she had been possessed by bloodlust. It was unbearable. Her confessions were sure to get them both condemned.

First Conviction, The Loss of a Name…

For the final time, Amber and Ember were brought out of their cell to stand naked before the court. The weeks of inquisition had humiliated her. The conclusion of the court was that the seven whom she had killed had given her justification to defend herself, with clear intentions of rape, and assault, but the court did not find sufficient evidence to accuse the survivors of attempted murder. Fortunately the capital charges against them, seven counts of murder, were reduced to lesser charges. Before court and house, they were convicted of provoked manslaughter, and breach of discipline. Their sentence, prove their discipline, or be formally stripped and exiled. Neither was being sentenced to death, but the sentence they received was far worse than execution. They were nailed—a means of crippling their psi without damaging it or taking it away, by amplifying the noise generated by psionic activity, which made them irresistable dragon bait. If they chose exile, their chances of survival were dim.

Blade. However they chose, there would be a second chance to resolve this mission. If they chose trial by combat, he would be ready, among the vai who would test them. That would be the least fortuitous choice, since his only option would be to kill them. But, he had judged them carefully. 

Ember and Amber. They were left to contemplate their sentence. Amber explained that since this was all the consequence of her actions, the only way they could challenge condemnation was primarily through her actions as well. Having said that, she left the decision up to Ember. Ember asked a few more questions and considered Amber’s answers carefully. If she could prove herself in the arena—if she could demonstrate proper discipline in the face of a similar or worse threat—she would absolve herself of the crime. It was, after all, a test of her self control. She would be able to fight, but not kill, to defend herself in a sexual or murderous assault by contracted vai. Unfortunately, Ember knew she didn’t trust herself not to go berzerk and kill, even if she deliberately submitted. She didn’t understand it, but she knew there was nothing even she could do to control the bloodlust she had felt if it seized her again. Harsh as the wild promised to be, she decided that exile was better than the alternative. Trial by combat would become Amber’s execution if she lost control. With Amber at her heels, she stepped through the exile’s gate. Her personal ties to her past, her title, and her place in civilization were all stripped away, locked inside her mind. 

 
Parole And Patronage To Compete For Nai

A Pet, A Toy; Taunts And Tortures

Convicted and stripped, she was paroled to complete her mnao. - All of her plans and all of her sacrafices were threatened with ruin when she found herself in the center of a bloodbath. The deaths she caused defending herself against rape and murder destroyed her hopes for the future. In spite of being condemned and stripped of name, phoenix was paroled for the completion of her mnao. The reality of her punishment finally hit her. She was no one, and she had done it to herself. She had voluntary ceased to be a person. She had become an animal. 

Without a name, she legally did not possess herself, and therefor she could be possessed. Her only status within society was as a slave or a pet, and her only identification a pet name. Even with an owner, the covenant governing the unnamed offered her only a shadow of her lost “humanity”. She had to earn the right to wear even a sheet, and her new peers were far more strict about modesty. Her nakedness marked her as unpossessed, and unprotected. A target for sexual predation, a pressure valve within her society she had never known existed. If she got raped now, no one would do a thing to help her, and if she resisted, if she defended herself as lethally as before, she would be put down or hunted. 

With the loss of her past, she found she had no future. To go back and face her absolution would be death. To go forward she had to let go of herself, accept the loss and start over. If she did not, then she would live her life out like an animal. Struggling on the fringes of civilization. She needed a patron to rebuild her life.

Them. The three survivors of Phoenix’s onslaught faced their sentencing and chose exile. With that bit of interference out of they way, they set out in search of their prey. They had a mission to complete.

 
DAUGHTER SELVES - PHOENIX I			DAVID AES
DAVID BRYAN ROBERSON • 554-87-4964		200,000-225,000 WORDS
2101 CANDLEWOOD PL, RIVERBANK, CA 95367-2134	© 1999 D. ROBERSON/AES
(209)869-4001
		
	
CHAPTER
I	

Phoenix Ember Nin stared out the window, watching the world stream by through the tinted glass. Everything was gilded with crisp morning light. Her eyes suddenly focused past the moving scenery. They became fixed on the immobile clouds, enhancing the sensation of a world in flux. Beyond them, a brilliant, blue curve of sky beckoned, and her body ached with a need to be cast at that horizon. Her senses keened for the sweet morning, but were filled instead with the musk and oil of the beige leather upholstery, and spice of men’s cologne. Her hands fisted in her lap, torturing the brocade fabric of her skirt. She had been a fool to assume that she had seen the last of these terror trips. Phoenix wondered if she was being delivered to her own execution. With ancient eyes in a girl’s face, she cast a quick glance at the two men who had herded her all the way from her dormitory in Oregon. Both of them were new to her. In spite of a week traveling in their company, she did not know them. She could feel them. Their awareness was a constant presence in her mind. Two deep pools, unmarred by the ripple of surface thoughts, that denied her any clues as to the purpose and personality of either man. She turned her gaze back to the racing scenery.
	The morning after her graduation, Phoenix had been picked up by the pair of ASIA agents and escorted off the reservation with out explanation. She did not think she had done anything wrong, but since when did that matter? One of the men looked at her in the rearview mirror and said, in a flat voice, “We are almost there. Fifteen minutes in this traffic.”
	Phoenix’s eyes flicked up to meet his in the mirror. How odd that one of them should volunteer that kind of information. Phoenix had been through this scenario enough times to know the unspoken rules. The agents were more than body guards, but she could not go anywhere outside of a reservation without them. True, they protected her from the world at large, but they were also there to protect the world at large from her. If they did not tell her up front, she never knew her destination until she arrived. Vague as it was, that hint had allowed her to guess. Looking away from him, Phoenix pressed for more information, “Why are you taking me to the space port? Am I being removed from the program?” Phoenix had to ask. She had to push. That was her part in the strange ritual. 
	She did not waste her breath sighing as he repeated for the hundredth time, “I’m sorry. Our instructions are only to deliver you to your contact and keep an eye on you. You will have to ask your contact when you see him.”
	Damn the man. He’s too good, she thought as her words failed to stir a betraying thought in him. Phoenix leaned her head back against the headrest of her seat and closed her eyes. She did not know if she wanted to sigh or moan. In the weeks approaching graduation she had begun feeling increasingly drained and lethargic. She had also experienced a heightened sensuality and almost constant state of arousal. Phoenix had fought off the symptoms of her strange fever during the last year of competetion, but she had been forced to withdraw from the gymnastics tour at last when the strain shattered her control over her psi, bringing the ASIA down on her head. Just once, she thought, I’d like to leave the reservation without an escort. It would almost be worth being blind, to be able to go where I want, and do what I want! 
	The three day long drive had given her plenty of time to dwell on the circumstances which had brought her to this disturbing pass. Questions had been raised in the past challenging her ability to control her power. She knew what would happen to her if those doubts were ever substantiated. She wondered who would notice if she never returned from this trip. Phoenix was an only child.  
	Her mind tested the restraints of the car’s psi shielding. Once again, her attention was sucked into that horrible abyss as her probing thoughts were devoured. Her mind felt like flame guttering in a strong wind. The brighter she burned, the greater the gale blew, forever sucking her energy off and turning it against her. She broke off in disgust. As her active fields waned the miasma cleared, allowing her passive mind to regain the deep and textured taste of things around her. 
	Phoenix perked up as she realized that the car had made the turn off for the international space port. Well, that confirms my guess, she thought. That doesn’t say that this is really my destination. Gods, what if they really do want me to go off planet? Accidents are so easy to arrange in space…
	As if they would give her this much time to think if they intended to kill her. They knew her well enough to know that she was far from helpless without her psi. Her guess was that the Aegis Security and Investigations Agency had simply assigned a couple of agents to escort her to her step-father on Venus who would be able to return her—if not back to her home on the reservation—at least to her mother’s home on Ao’Ajeo. 
	She bit her lip. 
	Was she ready for that? It had been six years since she had been taken from her old home. If she went back, would the memories still be waiting? Her mother died in the service when she was barely eleven years old. While Ember had been a loving parent, she had also been very private about her history. In spite of the rapport they shared, Ember had never really known much about the woman who had given her birth, and in whose image she had been conceived. Ember understood that she had been involved in human-avon relations; to the point where she had spoken the language and adopted the culture at home. Alien as both were to the common citizens she had later grown up with, she had become accustomed to it all before she could speak.
	Within minutes, they were pulling into the customs gate. Sam Malthus, the driver, carried her papers, and turned them over to the customs agent along with his and his partner’s ID’s. Phoenix mused as the man waved them through. It had been a long time since she had been in the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Establishment’s Aegis. She was surprised that she still had clearance. She considered the yet unanswered questions. The AEA represented too many interests for her to guess the purpose of her enforced visit. Still, ending up here eliminated a couple of unpleasant possibilities. Why would they take her into free territory unless her summons had something to do with the space program? They wouldn’t. Which meant that it was the Project, not Control, jerking it’s hand on her leash. 
	Thank God. With that in mind, she felt less afraid of her body guards with their thought-control training and their damping equipment. She shivered, as she thought of all the times as a child she had trusted herself in the keeping of Psi Control Agents, ignorant of their prerogatives. 
	The car leapt away from the customs gates, darted across traffic, and made the turn off for the Embassy District. She averted her thoughts from the many ways in which she had been used and reflected once more on how she had gotten to where she was. Her step-father had accompanied her when the death of her mother and the awakening of her psionic ability forced her relocation to a psionic reservation. At the time she had been with her step-father on Venus, so that was where she was stuck until she became licensed. Within two years the Aegis Security and Intelligence Agency (the other ASIA) discovered that she was a full spectrum class III active and immediately drafted her into the Avatar Program. In the four years of accelerated learning and intense psionic training, she had also been studying an exotic form of martial arts under her father. That training had given her an edge in gymnastic competition, and had accounted for her current presence on Earth. 
	At least until her fever had forced her to withdraw.
	The car reached it’s destination, turning into the round about fronting the stately building that dominated the end of the block. The black sedan prowled to a stop under the awning. A couple of the guards bracketing the entrance detached and came forward to check their credentials. One of them held the door as Phoenix got out. His eyes stared as the slanting rain of light struck golden highlights in her blood-red mane. With her hands clasped in front of her, she stepped away from the car towards the sun. She continued to drift away as one of the guards got in and drove off with the car. Finally the grip of the damping field slipped away. Her mind opened like a morning bloom. The wings of her perception sprang out of her slender body and stretched in all directions to, over and around the horizons. It felt like the first breath of fresh air after suffocating in a box for days.
	The sphere of her physical senses shrank, eclipsed by a sphere of awareness which swiftly encompassed the Earth, reaching out to caress the Moon, and asserting itself in the heavens. For that moment she felt herself as a delicious, glittering mote of dust on the skin of the Earth, before the balance of her perspective shifted to focus once more on the physical expression of her self.
	Her keepers broke into her moment of respite and nudged her into the building where she could feel built in damping hit her like a blast in the face. She staggered through the perimeter of oblivion, her mind threatening to black out, as her escort grabbed her by the elbows and carried her through the defensive screen. Her mind ignited again on the far side of the entrance, but it was like a fusion fire encased in its magnetic bubble. Phoenix gasped for air, forcing the two agents to pause as she anchored herself in space. God, it has been such a long time! I had forgotten what a shock it is to get through class three shielding. She geared down her thoughts, dimming the force and density of her attention until her awareness fit comfortably within its new limits. 
	She signaled her escort that she was collected again. Arthur Remington took her elbow, and Malthus dropped behind them, as Phoenix allowed herself to be guided through twists and turns of the building’s guts, to reach her destination. They stopped in front of an innocuous looking door. Arthur knocked on the paneled wood. Phoenix tried to see what the office held for her, but she could not reach through the walls. A sure sign that her contact was invested within. The door opened and Arthur motioned her through. Phoenix steeled herself to cross the shielded threshold. Pressing through the membrane of artificial apathy, Phoenix surfaced on the other side, again reigning in the field of her perceptions. 
	Before she could take in the identities of the men in the room, one of them greeted her, “Good morning, Phoenix. It is nice to see you again.” Phoenix looked over the small group. All three of them stood as she approached. The one who had spoken was Mark Dreyfus, the International Liaison for the Psionic Reservation Bureaus. Next to him was Martin Craig, Director of Research and Development for the Interface Systems Project, which had it’s main facilities on her home reservation. Across from Craig was Chadwick Powers, National Director of the Psionic Control Agency. Phoenix had not seen Mark since the first week after her mother’s death. Craig had been an uncomfortable fixture during her long convalescence. Powers was a man she had only seen on the worst days of her life. A sick sensation rolled within her at the sight of these three men together. She hid her reaction and greeted each of them in turn. Dreyfus gestured for her to take a seat.
	“It’s been a long time Miss Nin,” spoke Director Powers. 
	Phoenix gave a slight nod as she settled stiffly into the chair. She sat erect, perched almost on the edge of her seat as if afraid to commit her body to its soft, engulfing embrace. She met their eyes, for the moment unwilling to speak. It was amazing, she felt, as she absorbed the atmosphere of the room, that such a sense of age and dignity had been worked into the furnishings of the office. Tapestry curtains cut the morning light into a few slender shafts, slanted across the deeply shadowed interior. Hand worked oriental rugs blanketed the dark, hardwood floor. Richly sculpted mahogany furnishings cluttered the room, giving it a cozy closeness. Books covered the walls—heavy, leather bound texts, filled with the distilled essence of thousands of years of wisdom. 
	Phoenix fussed with her skirt, before finally folding her hands together on top of her knees, and looking again at Director Powers. The girl was seated right in the fall of light from the centermost tier of windows. Phoenix’s face, hair and hands glowed from within the muting greys of her suit-dress. The rich, musty aroma of a cigar incensed the sitting area. Powers sucked on the thick pug one more time before speaking again.
	“Yes,” he said slowly, examining the smoldering cherry, “Much too long really, to do without your unique talents. Especially considering what we’ve invested in rehabilitating you. Your doctor says you’ve made remarkable progress. For years, mind you, you’ve been making remarkable progress, but you have been completely out of circulation.” He looked at the two other men, adding, “I truly do hope you have yourself put back together. We cannot wait any longer, I’m afraid.”
	Dreyfus spoke, “I really have done everything in my power to give you space to heal, Phoenix. I still cannot fathom what you have suffered, and I respect your pain.” He smoothed a crease in his pants, looking down at his hand before looking her in the eye. “Like Director Powers, I hope that the time you’ve had is enough. We are in a desperate situation and your help is essential to being able to take the right action. I have to ask, are you ready to come back? Are you ready to serve the Aegis again?”
	Phoenix took a deep breath, she had felt the space constricting around her as the damping field pulled apart the edges of her attention, numbing her thoughts. She really did not know what he was asking, the surface of his mind was blurred by the cotton threading into her mind. “Do I take that question at face value?” she asked. “I suppose if you are asking me to go back to work, I can give it my best shot. I have been learning new skills, I would like to continue to pursue the medical applications of my abilities. That work has played a large part in my own healing. I do not want to go back to what I was doing before. It is not the work, but the associations are so strong...” her voice trembled for a moment, before she got it back under control. “I’m sorry. Going back is not going to let me get over it.” She put a finger to the inner corner of her eye.
	Dreyfus and Powers averted their eyes, but Craig stared at her intently. He had been there when she had come apart at the seams. He had witnessed with his own eyes as her mind lashed out in grief and tore apart the building around her, and the ten years worth of work it had contained. A slow, agonizingly tortured explosion as she tried to push the world away from her to escape the madness of her pain. Not a living soul had been harmed by her gentle devastation, but concrete and steel had been twisted and fused into monstrous contortions. A nightmare landscape which he had seen in his own troubled dreams far too many times in the six years hence. No one had known what had happened, they had to infer from the last words she had relayed from her mother. 
	It had been a year before her mind had unclenched from its death grip on her soul. It had been a year until that awful suspicion could be confirmed. The debriefing had put her back into deep withdrawal and resulted in the strangest suicide watch he had ever heard of. It frightened him to his core to see that pain still simmering behind her eyes as he stared at her. It frightened him more as he considered what they had met here to demand of her. Suddenly she looked at him and her words stabbed him to the quick.
	“You didn’t bring me here to ask me to come back to AP, Director Craig,” she said to him. Good Lord in Heaven! he thought before choking off all surface thought. Her next words suggested that perhaps she had not been eavesdropping. “You could have asked that in Oregon. Why am I here? I am not a child any longer, I understand that these are dangerous times, filled with dangerous minds. What is it you’re asking me to do?”
	“Perhaps the situation should be explained to you first,” Dreyfus said, cutting off Craig’s undoubtedly hasty response. He cleared his throat and settled himself to face her more comfortably. “Phoenix, my dear, your case has been a complex and delicate problem for many good people who work for me. We did everything we could to ensure that you could be made sound in mind and in body in the most efficient space of time possible. If things had been other than what they are, you would never have been told what I am about to tell you except in response to your own request. 
	“For the past six years you have been out of the loop,” he pointed out. “We saw no reason to trouble you with this information. Keeping you abreast of developments following the disaster which forced your breakdown would have been distressing and cruel to you.”
	Phoenix was biting her lip, trying not to jump to any conclusions. Willing herself not to read the worst into this careful infusion of information. Drayfus cleared his throat and went on, “Shortly after you first told us what happened to the Adventure, we noticed that certain explorers had failed to make their return dates. But space is deep and communication is difficult at best. There could be any number of reasons why these ships should be delayed, so we had to wait. Soon other ships turned up missing and other ships were sent out to investigate. In the space of five years we have lost thirteen ships to unknown causes. We had no clues as to their fates and feared the worst. One week ago, a ship returned to Earth carrying a survivor from one of those ships. She was the pilot of the Intrepid. Whatever she experienced out there, it catalyzed her psionic potential, enabling her to escape from her ship as it was destroyed, and survive for months in the void. According to her account, her ship was attacked while coming to the aid of another explorer. Aside from that, her account verifies yours in every detail with regard to the hostile contact which she saw vaporize her ship.
	“Phoenix,” he caught her eyes and held them, “we have been able to compare the course data filed on each of the missing ships. Accounting for their intended positions in time and space, and checked against a stretch of space approaching the core systems of the Aegis from the vicinity where Adventure was destroyed, there is a window of opportunity in each case where interception by the contact was possible.” There was a moment of silence before he asked, “You do understand what this means, don’t you?”
	Phoenix’s hand had risen to her mouth, and pain pulled at the corner of her eyes. There was a fevered light in her face as the implications roared through her mind. “It’s back-tracking. It’s looking for us,” she said in a stricken whisper.
	“The young woman who was recovered has gone into shock and withdrawal from her ordeal,” Powers, announced, catching her attention. “We have only the barest details of her experience from an account she gave to her rescuers before she withdrew into herself. It could take her years to recover. There is no one, except for you, who can relate to her experience. Your studies in psionic medicine only emphasize the decision we have made to assign you to her rehabilitation.”
	Phoenix looked at them all and said firmly, “You can count on me.”
	“Thank you,” Dreyfus said emphatically, and then he took a deep breath. “However, there is another thing we must stress,” he pointed out. Phoenix raised an eyebrow questioningly. “Without any question, the world has to be told. There is no way the disappearance of fourteen ships and several thousand astronauts can be kept from the public. Even at risk of starting a panic, it would be unspeakable to hide the fact that a hostile and alien civilization has declared war on the human race.” Phoenix nodded. It only made sense. “That is why you had to be brought here today,” he finished. He handed her a binder. “This contains the details of the presentation we want you to make to the media,” he explained.
	“Me?!” she retorted. She flipped the binder open and scanned the pages within, hand at her throat. As she saw the gist of it, her throat clenched strangling her words, “No. No, no, no. I can’t do this.” She tried to give the binder back.
	“Phoenix, please. Who else? You are the only ‘eye witness’ available. You are the obvious choice. You are the only choice,” he stressed, refusing to take the document back. He sighed heavily as she stared at him full of fear and anger. “Do you think this was an easy decision for us? Anyone can say that this horrible thing has happened, but only you can make them understand what this horrible thing is! Only you can tell them what really  happened!”
	That horrible thing lived in her memory, forever waiting to accuse her of her part in it. Phoenix’s head swam as it hit her. It clawed inside her guts, It gnawed at the depths of her soul, and the very idea of opening that door in the back of her mind forced a cry of pure animal pain from her throat. Without thought, instinct kicked in. Before the startled eyes of the three men, her body unraveled and twisted out of existence. 

In another room down the hall, there had been a moment’s warning as the sound of her cry penetrated the barrier her mind could not. The two men charged with the protection and restraint of the young psionic leapt to the control panels. Arthur barked at once, “Block her damn it!” His younger partner slammed his hand down on the panic button, forcing the damping field to fill in and flood the interior of the office with it’s mind deadening effect.
	“She’s going to rabbit,” he said as the system adjusted to execute the damping flood. He had barely begun to draw another breath when he saw her form disintegrate on camera. He felt a moment of alarm at the thought of what might happen if the field interrupted her power while she was discorporeal. He watched the graphic model of the field filling in with one eye as the other kept tabs on the real world effect it should be having. 
	He breathed a sigh of relief as he saw her body congealing, twisting together out of thin air. With the combined images of the field model and the live feed from the office, it looked for all the world as if Phoenix’s body was being squeezed out of nowhere by the closing fist of the damping field. He quickly announced, “I’ve got her.”
	Arthur glanced at the screens while speaking into his sleeve cuff, “OK, the genie is back in the bottle, tell Control.” Arthur stepped to the door as security rushed up in response to the panic button alarm. While Arthur conferred with the resident security and control agents, Malthus was staring at the status readouts on the field.
	“Damn,” he breathed, watching the numbers flicker on the screen. “Look at this reading,” he said in a louder voice, aimed at his partner. He saw the numbers rising as the field array reported the absorbed power readings. His eyes dropped from the power conversion in kilowatts to the force conversion in newtons. To himself he silently prayed, “God, this better hold.”
	Arthur came back from the door and laid a hand on his shoulder. “We’ve got a second perimeter around the building,” he reminded Malthus, having overheard the younger man’s last remark.
	Malthus gave a nod. His eyes were glued to the flickering numbers. They were still climbing, all of a sudden the count blanked and then came back in a different display format. “God damn!” he exclaimed as he recognized the new scale. Geometric growth. His jaw went slack. “Look at this reading!” he gasped grabbing his partner by the sleeve. He remembered a story he had heard once about doubling grains of rice on the squares of a chess board. He watched the numbers climbing past a hundred iterations of doubling and still it kept rising. The only difference was that the number increased with a slow, menacingly relentless impetus.
	Arthur squeezed his shoulder, saying gently and firmly, “Just do your job, Sam.”
	Malthus could not take his eyes from the screen, wiping a faint sheen of sweat with the back of his hand while his mind reeled. He couldn’t even conceive of the power that was being siphoned away from her mind. In a desperate and pained voice he cried, “Jesus H. Christ, she’s just a kid!”
	Arthur Remington moved his hand to grasp the back of Malthus’s neck. “Just stow it, Sam,” he ordered giving his partner a tight little shake. The younger man leaned back and tried to shake off the shock. He knew better. He had been told not to try to imagine the power some actives could tap. He shuddered, when he noticed that the numbers had peaked and begun to regress. Over seven hundred iterations, geometric doubling, from a one newton grain of rice. 

In the office, Phoenix lay crumpled on the floor. Her body was shuddering as her mind pulled out of oblivion. A degree of control returned to her as she forced herself to sit up. Her animal reflex to escape had been unable to overcome the damping field, buying time for her wits to grasp the situation. She struggled to deal with the terror still awake inside herself as she dragged herself to her feet. The men were looking at her with utterly blank expressions. Phoenix took a deep, ragged breath as she turned to face them again. “You have no idea what you are asking me to do,” she panted. Her hands fisted as she tried to master the shaking that still tortured her body. “I can’t do it.”
	“You have to. Do you think this is easy for any of us?” Powers demanded. “Do you realize the risk we face? For almost a thousand years, we have denied the existence of active psionics while using psionic actives to build everything our future as a species depends on! Everything was fine when we simply evaded the truth. Do you think we want to reveal the existence of people like you to the Aegis at large? Do you realize how much effort has gone into trying to prevent this stage of transition in human evolution from exploding into the greatest conflict man kind has ever conceived of? Do you really understand the terrible thing we are really asking you to do?” he challenged fiercely.
	Phoenix looked at him and her mouth worked as she tried to find a response.
	Craig interrupted her before she could, declaring, “Of course you don’t understand! You are so caught up in your personal feelings that you haven’t even thought of it! How do we know about the aliens?” he challenged her. “Do we have a single piece of hard evidence? Do we have a single photo, a single sensor reading? Do we have any communication logs from the ships that have disappeared? Is there anything we can tell the people, to warn them of the danger, that does not come solely out of your head?! You are the evidence. Not just what you know, but what you are!”
	“Phoenix,” Dreyfus stood and came up to her, taking her hands in his. “The problem we face is not as simple as it sounds. Yes, the world has to be told. Yes, something has to be done. But we have no hope if we can’t make the people believe what we know. We are extremely vulnerable here on Earth. But we also have a problem. There are more psionic actives alive today than we can possibly hope to hide from discovery. There is no way that the reservation system can keep up with the growth of your population. There are more people aware of your secret now than we can hope to regulate, just in the projects and control agencies alone. We had plans to deal with this problem, but in light of this new threat, there is no time to carry through with them, we have to devote so much of our resources to answering that threat, that the psionic situation will get completely out of control. Even if we could doctor up some evidence, even if we could manipulate the media to get the warning out, we dare not lie in light of the fact that what we are hiding from the population at large represents at least as great a threat to human survival as what ever we have stumbled across out there.” 
	“But why does it have to be me?” she demanded. “God, there has to be at least a dozen people who went into me and dug out that memory! There are thousands of people who can prove that telepathy is real. Why ask me to tear myself apart over this just when I can finally make it through a day without falling apart?”
	“I understand that this is going to be hard for you, but listen to me, Phoenix,” Dreyfus pleaded, while Powers and Craig scowled at her. “We have faced the necessity of telling the world about the disaster, we have accepted the necessity of revealing the source of our knowledge of the hostile contact. We still face the necessity of controlling the consequences of this disclosure. There are too many sides to this issue that have to be explained. You have the experience with the technology and understand its capabilities and the nature of its development. You are trained in dealing with the latent population, and are more fully aware of the reality of universe at large than most of your peers. You, by yourself, can meet the needs of this situation and represent the least over-all exposure we can hope to manage.”
	“But I don’t want to be exposed! God, all I’ve ever wanted was to be able to go through life like any normal person! You can’t do this to me!” she cried.
	“Phoenix, you’ve got to face this down,” Dreyfus said. “You have to be strong enough to look it in the eye. If you can’t face it without breaking down, you will never stop being broken. You will remain crippled for the rest of your life! Stop running away from yourself!”
	“You are not giving me any choice!” she accused. “Let me face it on my own, in my own way. You just...” she choked, “you just don’t have any idea what you are asking me.”
	“You are right, Phoenix,” Craig said suddenly, “You don’t have any choice. None of us have a choice. There is only one person who is qualified to stand at the front of this issue: The person who can represent the truth! Since we have to give the world the truth, we have no choice but to give it you. You have had years to resolve this. Just consider this a test of your resolve, and the proof of your rehabilitation.”
	Phoenix suddenly stopped trembling. She looked away from Dreyfus to study Craig and Powers. She didn’t need to read their minds to recognize the threat behind those words. There was a kind of approval for Craig’s declaration in Powers’ face. Phoenix was well aware of the fate of an unstable psi. The defeated look in Dreyfus’s eyes only added to the sense of betrayal, as she realized that for all of his warmth and support, he too stood above her. A carrot in one hand did not disguise the stick in the other. It took this cold slap to awaken at last to the reality she had denied for so long. With a sudden calm, she leaned down and picked up the binder from where it had dropped out of her disintegrating hands only moments ago. She had nothing to say to any of these men who would never, could never be her friends. As she slammed out of the office the men looked at each other and nursed their isolated thoughts.

 “OK, she’s heading back stage,” Arthur Remington said, shaking his partner. The two of them got up and moved out of the control room to pick up the tail on their charge. As they departed, the resident security detail turned their attention to the boards. The senior man present went over to the technician who was running a diagnostic program through the damping system.
	“What’s the status on that thing?” he asked the young woman.
	“Tap and damping matrix look pretty fried,” she said. She was quite impressed with the log she was reviewing as she made out her report. One of the other technicians was cracking open the generator housing on the main unit. The stench of fried molecular circuits filled the room. It bore a striking resemblance to burnt flesh. 
	“We need a bigger unit,” the man said as he pulled out his tools and set to examining the circuit grain. “Something with more lateral arrays,” he added, addressing the female technician. 
	“Do you really think that’ll help, that unit is fifty times more efficient than the human brain. And yet she harnessed enough raw power to slag its solid state molecular neural net. Her skull should be filled with a fine dry powder!” she retorted. “It is almost as if she processes data somewhere besides in her brain,” the technician argued. She made her last note in her report and handed it to the senior security officer. 
	“Don’t tell my you buy into that ‘imaginary neural architecture’ crap. How can you have an objective structure of pure thought?” the man asked as he accepted it. She shrugged. He perused the highlights, before initialing the report and handing it to his number two man. He shook out his sleeve and cupped his hand over his ear. “Control, be advised, Active Nin burned the office perimeter damper,” he said into his shirt cuff. “The personal detail has left to rejoin Nin. A report of the incident is on its way up to you now.” He took a last look around the room, his eyes lingering on the screen where the power curve was still on display. With a heavy shake of his head, he exited the room, leaving the technicians to their work.


CHAPTER
II

Phoenix stood in the wings off stage, imperceptibly quaking, breaking into a cold sweat. Her eyes skittered over the dull lacquer of the stage, the piercing glare of lights, the girders and scaffolding of the overhead, all assailing her with a crispness of detail that she could not take in. A storm raged within her. A whirling chaos of emotion, which reality could not quite penetrate. Yet, somehow, her mind was calm and clear. The idea of stepping into the auditorium and opening herself to the horror lurking within her memory ought to be terrifying. Instead, the cold thought of her only alternative—the price she would have to pay to escape her pain—had numbed her. The pair of shadows attached to her were manifestations of that threat. She could feel the peculiar blank attention of her body guards hovering near, and she strove to ignore them. 
	Aimlessly, she turned her back on the alter where she was to be sacrificed to the media. Rather than dwell on what loomed ahead, she sought out a quiet corner and opened the stiff cover of the binder. She forced her eyes to absorb the material inside it, without letting it touch her conscious thoughts. Pouring herself into memorizing the words, she let the information seep into her skull detail by detail, where it would await the unavoidable necessity of coming back out, dredging her pain up with it.
	The most intense study she could bear to make still left her with too much time to kill. In a daze she dragged her unhappy chaperones back and forth through the building, observing the increasing pitch of activity. In a sense, she was enjoying the last moments of her invisibility, moving namelessly through crowds of people that in a short time would know her for what she was, and would think unbearable thoughts about her that she could not help but overhear from their undisciplined minds. A once uncritical—or at least impersonal—mirror would become filled with distorted reflections of herself that would plague her for the rest of her life.
	Inevitably, she wandered back stage again where the sound of the assembling reporters carried over the stage to assault her nerves. Her physical and mental senses threatened to dissolve in the piercing chaos. Out of habit, she struggled to distance herself from it. The subdued roar of human voices was accented with the harsh, metallic snaps and clicks of equipment being set up, and the microphones whining as they picked up and amplified the white noise into whale-song shrieks of random feedback. The smell of too many bodies had begun to weigh in the air. A disturbing gruel of musk and spice underscored by the hot, intimate flavor of predominantly healthy, well maintained bodies that she had always found at once appealing and appalling. 
	The busy tension of thoughts and the disorienting flurry of activity around her finally broke through her defenses. Phoenix reeled as she was overwhelmed. Instead of recoiling, she suddenly leaned into it, begging it to press harder against her to stifle the tide of her own thoughts. Still it was not enough. She bit her lip as her haunted eyes peered out from the shelter of the wings. Her thoughts surfaced like the peal of a mourning bell, a desperate cry that was futile to voice. I don’t want to be here. She strangled it even as she thought it. She could not think of anything more ridiculous than the idea that what she wanted carried any weight in the world. God help her, if she ever gave in to the need to take what she wanted—to do what was right for herself. Such insubordination would never be tolerated. Self interest was a luxury a person like her could not afford.
	Arthur interrupted her desperate thoughts to comment, “These lights are too intense for your complexion. You’ll look like a drowned corpse out there. I don’t know why no one else thought of it. Well,” he sighed, “There’s time if you want to do anything about it.”
	Phoenix looked at him. He did not care about her public appearance any more than she did. She did not have to be able to read his mind to see that. The comment was as out of place as the hints he had dropped on the way in. Phoenix had no idea why he had clued her into her destination. Nor could she guess why he would bother to think up a way for her to distract herself. It showed a curious empathy for a control agent. She allowed him to lead her into the cramped dressing rooms where a woman sat smoking a cigarette. The make-up artist looked up at their entrance and Arthur quickly explained that Phoenix was going to be speaking in front of the cameras but someone had neglected to arrange for her makeup to be applied. The woman crushed out her cigarette and examined Phoenix’s skin in the harsh lights glaring around the mirror.
	“Oh, ghastly!” She exclaimed sweetly. “Don’t worry, dear, we can take care of that in no time.” She grabbed Arthur and shoved him out the door before grabbing Phoenix by the hand, dragging her over to the stools and making her sit down. She smiled, saying, “There, now we have a little privacy.” As she arranged the tools and materials of her craft, she studied Phoenix’s face. “It doesn’t look like you wear makeup much, if at all. Very clear, healthy skin. Let me know if you have any allergies before I start, and be sure to come back in here afterwards and get this crap cleaned off. It would be a shame to ruin your complexion by forgetting,” she rattled off, as she selected her pallet.
	Phoenix felt herself smile as she nerved herself to tolerate the stranger’s touch. Among the scars of her convalescence was maimed trust. During her convalescence, her mind had been forced open. The depths of her agony probed by strangers who prized her repressed memories more than they valued her sanity. Not once. Not a mere dozen penetrations. Her mind had been raped, under the guise of necessity, upwards of a thousand times before she had pulled enough of herself together to oppose these horrible invasions. Even now that she had come so far, her damaged psyche could not bear the touch of the unknown. No one who touched her could remain a stranger, when the slightest contact could provoke a self defensive telepathic probe. It took strict concentration for her to quell the reflex. Restrict it to a passive glimpse of surface thoughts and emotions.
	Fortunately, the woman did not seem possessed of any of the “dangerous” flavors of attention. Phoenix managed to relax a little. She spared a thought in gratitude that she had mastered the reflex best in her hands. Her face was peculiarly vulnerable, though. Phoenix could not imagine how the reflex would react if a stranger tried to touch her in more intimate areas, but she knew from experience that the way some people had simply looked at her had triggered it violently. It kinda takes the fun out of being a teenager! She thought sardonically. Having made it through the worst part, Phoenix was able to surrender herself to the woman’s ministrations.
	Her anxiety was lulled by the almost ritual feel of having her face washed with a mild astringent and then painted by cold, wet, and curiously heavy foundation. The make up was applied in firm deft strokes with a smooth sponge, and her face was cradled and guided by the strong fingers of the artist’s other hand. As she worked, the woman talked. There was a strange sort of intimacy to the whole exchange, cloaked in the professional distance of an individual—whether masseuse, hair stylist, physical therapist or doctor—who works intimately with the body in a culture that rarely condones such contact between strangers. For Phoenix, incapable of being touched without that touch echoing back on a deeper level, her submission was accompanied by a heightened receptivity. A sensual awareness of other. A suggestion of something as powerful and innate to life as sex, and yet something she knew almost nothing about. 
	Trying to figure out what it was almost distracted her.
	The calming effect of releasing herself to this physical manipulation was countered by an omnipresent sense of being dressed for a feast, and realizing that she was the main course. She could not help feeling that peculiar vulnerability as she thought of herself being made pretty for “public consumption”. It told her something about the media and entertainment professions, that such a euphemism had evolved. Not that it made any difference to her. She was already being devoured by her own angst.	

Mark Dreyfus poured himself a tumbler full of brandy, half wincing as he considered the early hour, but the discussion was beginning to eat away at his nerves. Powers was chewing another cigar while he reviewed the reports that had come up to him as the senior control agent on site. Martin Craig was still commenting aloud, “I tell you, what we witnessed is nothing. After you’ve seen one of them teleport a few times it almost becomes unremarkable. It just doesn’t compare to having the world torn apart around you.” Craig had also helped himself to a drink. He took a painful swallow and continued, “It is just inconceivable to think what she could do to the entire world if she ever completely lost control.”
	Dreyfus stiffly lowered himself into his chair, responding, “You are looking at it from the wrong end, Marty. Taken in context to anything as small as a planet, that slip of a girl has god-like powers and capabilities. Her abilities seem excessive, beyond any human need. However, if you really look at it, any species that is bound to a planetary environment is ultimately doomed. Look at the obstacles for human survival, the relentless depletion of planetary resources, the age old threat of famine and war caused by overpopulation, the possibility of extinction through some celestial event, and the vast desert of interstellar space. How long has the human race hoped we would somehow overcome all that if only we could put our minds to it? How long have we prayed that we would somehow think our way out of the mess we have made? We just didn’t expect evolution to beat us to the punch line. That power she has, that everyone is so damned afraid of, is not meant for Earth. It is meant for the stars. You could take her up in one of these ships, and kick her out the airlock and she’d thank you for letting her go out and play. You don’t realize just how human she is. That part of the scheme worked magnificently.” Dreyfus took a sip from his glass, glaring at both of his associates, “Nor do you realize what we’ve thrown away here today.”
	“Now what is that supposed to mean?” Powers growled looking up from his reports.
	“Do you honestly think you can threaten a seventeen year old girl—a girl who has more power than you can possibly imagine—and still have a hope of controlling her ever again?” Dreyfus challenged. “I warned you that this situation would force us to sacrifice her. Our control of these actives is totally dependent on their acceptance of our authority. Now that you have threatened her, we have lost her acceptance.”
	“Nonsense,” powers retorted, “Nobody threatened her.”
	“Chad, a fool and an idiot should not have lasted as long, in your position, as you have managed. Please tell me, what is your secret?”
	Powers scowled. “Regardless of what she perceived,” he drawled, “I neither suggested nor implied that the ASIA would target her for elimination. As far as that goes, Craig raised the point, and it was a very valid point. It is in her own best interest to demonstrate her full recovery. These are extreme circumstances, and as far as I could see he merely advised her to take advantage of this necessity, instead of letting it take advantage of her.”
	“Regardless of what she perceived,” Dreyfus mocked. “Don’t you get it! All of our efforts have been geared around carefully controlling what actives perceive. Didn’t your fathers tell either one of you not to point a gun at someone unless you intend to use it?” Dreyfus complained. “Of course every active knows that we have the means to deal with dangerous actives. No active is ever supposed to know that he or she is a dangerous active! What difference does it make if you didn’t openly threaten her? You can’t deny that a threat was implied. So what if the words came out of Craig’s mouth, you endorsed it with your silence. You assume that you have achieved your objective, and that she will go along with our machinations, from here on out, just like before. The fact is, she is going to go out there, and rip her heart out on stage, because that is the only way she can get away with saying ‘fuck you!’ to the lot of us. You just haven’t seen that yet.”
	“Mark, just what are you getting at?”
	Dreyfus looked at Powers, and shook his head. “Chad, that girl expects you to be sitting on the order for her death. Her first prerogative will be to make that order disappear, even if she has to grab the chair, and the person sitting in it, to get at it. Keep your guard up, my old friend, because hers already is.”
	There was a knock on the door. Dreyfus’s assistant opened the door and announced, “The Prime Minister of the Solar Authority is here. We go on the air in five.”

Phoenix was hovering off stage again as the hour approached. The waiting ended suddenly as the Prime Minister of the Solar Authority appeared in the wings. The Prime Minister’s Chief of Staff came up to her and drew her aside to give her her instructions and briefly introduce her to the Prime Minister. Phoenix accepted his hand and acknowledged the most powerful man in the Solar System—politically speaking—with a slight nod. The Chief of Staff was still running through his dialogue of instructions, including the Prime Minister in his crisp briefing, “I think it is best that we allow her to introduce herself, and what she is, and leave it up to her to explain what it all means.” The Chief of Staff suddenly glanced at his watch and set his mouth in a grim line. His eyes turned then, to lock on hers. “Phoenix? It is time,” he said, holding out a hand to usher her on stage. For a moment she felt the panic try to grip her, as she stared out from the safety of the wings. A part of her lay down and begged her not to do this thing.
	Another part of her said, do—or die.
	Phoenix gritted her teeth and steeled her soul. She nodded, running her hand over her hair to smooth it in place. There was a strange hush as she stalked out in front of the lights. Her face was set in stone as her mind was flooded with the hard, amazed attention of the crowd. Chief among the impressions she received from her audience was surprise at her youth. Her bodyguards remained close to her as she stepped up to the podium while the Prime Minister’s security arranged itself about and before the stage. As she looked out over the podium into the auditorium, her eyes were blinded by the lights of the cameras, but her other senses were crisply filled with the complex human tapestry which regarded her.
	She glanced down at the binder still clutched in her hands, and dropped it on the stage beside her, dismissing it from her thoughts entirely. She stared at the rack of microphones that had been adjusted for the striking height of the prime minister. A strange humor lanced through her as she realized that the masquerade was over. With an evil smile, she willfully grasped the tension nuts and lowered the microphones to a comfortable height, telekinetically. She felt a positive delight at this blatant use of power in front of the latent majority. The irony was that the significance was mostly lost, as the feat was recognized for what it was by so very few.
	Finally, willing calm into her voice she addressed the assembled world media, “Ambassadors of the Nations of Earth and the Aegis, members of the World Security Commission, ladies and gentlemen of the international media, good morning and thank you for assembling here on such short notice. My name is Phoenix Ember Nin. I have been asked to explain to you why you have been summoned here today.” Phoenix waited a moment to be sure she had their attention, and  proceeded with her memorized speech, “As you know, the Prime Minister of the Solar Authority represents the space based interests of the Earth Establishment. It is his responsibility, and the responsibility of his administration to oversee all aspects of the development of space under the jurisdiction of the Aegis and to protect the rights and lives of all Earth Citizens in space, or in transit to or from space. 
	“As many of you have learned today, the Prime Minister of the Solar Authority, has emergency powers which may be invoked to summon the governments of the world in assembly. What you may not know is that the Prime Minister may only invoke those powers in the face of a crisis that threatens the people of Earth, which originates in space. Never before, in any administration, have these powers been invoked. 
	“None of you know who I am,” she confessed. “Nor would you ever have known if it were not for the fact that such a threat now faces our world. I have been asked to reveal the nature and history of our awareness of this threat and convince you that this threat is real, and,” Phoenix cleared her throat, concluding, “Has already cost several thousand human beings their lives.”
	As intended, this opening statement grabbed the world by the throat. A wave of shock rolled through the auditorium before the mob finally settled down to a low murmur. Phoenix hugged herself as she prepared herself to deliver her next words.
	“There have been rumors that several deep space explorers have gone missing over the past five years. Investigations were mounted to look into these lost missions, but in spite of every effort, no explanation for why these ships failed to make their scheduled returns could be brought before the public. This situation changed late last week when a ship sent out to investigate some of these disappearances returned home with a survivor, the pilot of the Intrepid. Before withdrawing into a catatonic state, she described the fate of her ship and crew mates. This account corroborated classified information already in the possession of the ASIA. The existence of this information was immediately brought to the attention of the current Prime Minister’s administration—an account presented to the previous administration, detailing precisely when, where and how the explorer Adventure was lost. The evidence, which could not be confirmed or denied at the time, and consisted entirely of information derived from a classified source, was suppressed for reasons of Aegis security.
	“Until now,” she declared, and Phoenix committed herself at last. “Six years ago, a number of governments, including the Solar Authority, covered up the existence of a witness to the destruction of the deep space explorer Adventure, along with her account of that ship’s fate. As that witness, I have been asked to come forward and appear before you today,” she announced, and preparing them for the bomb she was about to drop, Phoenix added, “to explain both what actually happened and how I was in a position to observe it. Before I can do so, however, I must tell you why my account—why my very existence—was covered up.”
	Phoenix held her breath. 
	“What I experienced,” she continued a moment later, ripping away the veil, “could not be disclosed to the public without revealing my identity—as well as the fact that I am, like my mother was before me, a government licensed, full spectrum active psionic. The government could not inform you of the fate of the Adventure without admitting that it has lied for almost fifty generations about the existence of people like me. I can promise you that for anything less than a threat to the survival of the human race, I would not have been allowed to come before you with the truth.”
	The crowd uttered its shock. A clamor of voices rose in a demand for answers. “I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to hold your questions,” Phoenix implored, gesturing for people to sit back down and hold their tongues.
	“Before I can tell you what happened, I have to explain a few things to establish the nature of my involvement in the final mission of the deep space explorer Adventure,” she said, laying her hands over the corners of the podium. “Six years ago, I was a contractor and resident of the Waterbreak Psionic Reservation and Research Project on Venus. You are probably not aware of the relationship between the Psionic Reservation and Research Projects and the Space Program,” Phoenix pointed out. “I will go into detail on that only so far as to state that my mother and I were both resident contractors working for the Interface Systems Project. Our work involved the development of an improved hyperspace drive for point to point instantaneous transit through space, derived from the study of our own abilities as active psionics. At the conclusion of my account, I have been directed to demonstrate the six major disciplines of psi and respond to questions relating to those abilities. Until then, please refrain from asking questions,” Phoenix had to demand again, projecting her voice over the roar of questions already falling from their lips. 
	When they had quieted, she continued, “This work proceeded both at home, where the projects main facilities were located, and on various space based installations and test vehicles. The installation of our final, full scale prototype onboard the Adventure began in early May of twenty-nine ninety-seven,” Phoenix scanned the crowd. She reached inside of herself and opened the first packet of pain. “My mother was selected to accompany the ship during it’s long range drive trials in thirty oh-one, because of her familiarity with the technology.” But that was not the only reason, and Phoenix addressed it, revealing how the project had cheated its way around one of the most serious limitations of the space program. “While we have had designs for FTL, or instantaneous, communications technology for decades, the current ban on artificial intelligence has arrested all applications of this technology from being developed. As a PRRP mission, however, we had access to a communications resource unavailable to normal deep space operations. Telepathy. So, the decisive reason for my mother’s assignment was the close telepathic rapport she shared with me,” she glanced down and took a deep breath. “I served as the ground communication link for the mission,” she concluded.
	“At the time that the Adventure encountered the object in space I was in total rapport with my mother,” she began again, finally coming to the point of this ordeal. “In effect I was present throughout the events that followed as completely as each of you are now in this room,” Phoenix declared to the assembly. Seemingly without pause Phoenix went into a full, unedited recapitulation. The doors in her mind had slammed open. It was all she could manage to harness her voice, locking a part of herself onto the flood of agony, to narrate what the rest of her was forced to relive. The force of her passionate words imbued her slim form with a presence that dominated the stage and bathed the stunned audience with an echo of her vision.

Once again Phoenix found herself standing on the deck of the bridge of the Adventure looking with wonder at the strange object that approached. The body belonged to her mother, Ember, but their minds were so deeply entwined from months of constant rapport that Phoenix felt no sense of distance from what was unfolding before her mother’s eyes. Instead, she was starkly aware of being in two places at once. With one mind, Phoenix-Ember got to their feet in a younger body and ran across the corner of the reservation where the Interface Systems Project facilities were grouped. Phoenix’s body stumbled, short of breath, up to a friendly, familiar form leaning against a wall outside of the mission control building. Phoenix’s voice carried their excitement as she announced, “There’s something out here! I think it’s alive!”
	Lieutenant O’Neal looked at the girl, and for a moment couldn’t figure out what she was talking about. Then he suddenly remembered. “Wait. Hold on. Alive? Are you saying that you’ve found something?” He asked in astonishment, as he mentally adjusted to the fact that he was talking to Ember, not just Phoenix. “What are we talking about here? A planet? Alien life? Some sort of alien culture?” He pressed. Phoenix was still catching her breath, nodding, shaking her head and shrugging. O’Neal crushed out his cigarette and grasped her hand. As he led her inside, he quizzed her, “What is it exactly that you have encountered?”
	“I... Well,” she took a deep breath and finally gave a straight answer, “We’re not entirely sure. We picked up an anomaly on long range sensors. I mean an object traveling at superluminal speeds through the same quadrant we were. We tried to set up a scan to intercept it before it could pull completely out of range. You have no idea how hard that was!” She grinned. “Damn, we really don’t have the sensor capability to deal with these kind of situations. We were lucky that our passives and gravitics indicated anything useful at all. We fired up the active sensors and began broadcasting broad spectrum sweeps hoping whatever it was would pass through and bounce back something that we could analyze. But when the return came, it was heavily compressed and laced with light wash.
	“Light wash? But that would mean...”
	“Yes,” she interrupted, “the object must have noticed the active pulses as it passed through them. As near as we can tell, they slowed down when they ran into the sweep path, oriented on us and then raced the return back to us. That was confirmed when their breaking wave caught up to us later. At some point it had to have dropped back to relativistic speeds or it would have arrived right on top of the incidence wave. We finally got them on gravitics again, and they are on approach to our position. Who all is awake and on duty?” Ember asked through her daughter.
	“Director Craig is still in mission control,” Lieutenant O’Neal answered as he concealed his shock. He led the girl into the mission control room. He waved for and got the director’s attention as he walked Phoenix over. Martin Cannon Craig listened to Alan O’Neal’s hasty summation before turning and grabbing Phoenix hard by the arms. He looked her carefully in the eye and commanded, “Let me talk to Ember, quickly!” Ember directed her attention to her daughter-self on Earth, leaving Phoenix to pay attention to everything while her thoughts were diverted.
	Ember, in Phoenix, answered, “Director Craig, you are not going to believe this!” Her girl’s voice crowed with excitement. She reiterated the details. “We’ve been watching it approach for about an hour, but this is the first sign we’ve had that it could be more than a celestial anomaly. It is demonstrating impossible behavior for an inanimate phenomenon. It turned toward us not twenty minutes ago and it’s getting closer!”
	“My God!” Craig uttered with shock. “What do you make of it, Ember?”
	“I don’t know what to make of it,” she confessed. “Whatever it is we have only just begun to get visuals of it that show more than a glint of light distortion,” she explained, as her attention wandered back to the ship. Still commanding Phoenix’s voice, she described what she was seeing, “Whatever it is it is a luminous body. From a little over three astronomical units away it has an apparent magnitude of about minus fourteen, about half that of the Sun viewed from Earth. We’re reading obscene power levels, correlated from its interface footprint. Definitely field architecture, from its displacement configuration. As best as I can figure it, whatever is harnessing the power would have to be classed as a fourth order matrix. That is just unbelievable! If that’s its drive rating, then this ship could jump accurately between galaxies about as well as Adventure could jump from Sol to Alpha Centauri!” She exclaimed
	“Can you tell if it is a natural or artificial source? Is there anything to indicate that there is some form of intelligence behind that power?” Craig challenged. “Wait, you said it was closing. What are you doing?”
	Phoenix winced and turned her attention back to her body as he shook her. Ember felt her daughter’s discomfort as her own. “Craig, you are hurting us,” Ember complained before responding, “Right now we aren’t doing anything. Captain ordered first contact protocol, so it looks like we’re going to wait for its next move. It is still several hundred million kilometers away, and at sub-light speeds we have some time before any kind of contact would be practical.” Ember paused and then replied to the preceding question, “If this is something that somebody built, they are way ahead of us in field technologies. On the other hand, a natural source...” Her voice trailed off. Phoenix’s body conveyed Ember’s thoughtful shrug. “We’re talking about one hell of a psi!” She cracked with a nervous laugh. “I don’t know if there is intelligence behind it, but it certainly is aware of us. I don’t want to think of what could evolve to exist in space with that much power at it’s disposal without developing some form of intelligence.” 
	This started a many sided argument on the ship as well as at mission control. Several different people stressed that assumptions based on human experience had no weight in the face of a truly alien phenomenon. Ember gave in and finally admitted, “Sure, there’s no reason why this thing could have nothing more than a shark’s mentality. But my instincts tell me that it is more than some celestial animal. 
	“But let’s just look at the facts,” she proposed, still in the middle of the strange discussion. “It was sailing by at a good clip when our first scans hit it. It instantly changed vectors to intercept us,” she repeated, so she could point out, “That’s why I think I was reading a drive output, because this object obviously has control of its momentum and inertia if it can maneuver like that.” Ember paused, and Phoenix’s face looked stunned. “Wait, hold on...” She said absently. Phoenix had been monitoring the ship again when she noticed the upset among the crew
	Ember picked it up and shifted her attention to see what had changed. The object had closed rapidly while she had been distracted by craig. It had come within a thousand kilometers when it finally stopped dead. “Craig,” she said carefully, “it has stopped. We have been keeping station since our first long range scans. There is no doubt that it is taking a look at us now,” she reported. After a moment, she began, “I don’t sense any...”
	Phoenix’s voice cut off, and Phoenix felt herself shoved back into her body, barred from all but the faintest echo of Ember. Craig was shaking her arm wanting to know why Ember had cut off in the middle like that. “Mr. Craig, she pushed me out and blocked her mind. Why would she do that?” Phoenix asked puzzled. It had been a long time since her mother had cut her off, and the suddenness of it had alarmed her deeply. Phoenix reached out and probed against her mother’s mind. Phoenix couldn’t imagine any reason why Ember would cut her off like that. She worried at her mother’s shields until they relaxed enough to let her in. As Phoenix looked around the bridge, she saw the pallor of the crew’s faces and smelled the scent of fear.
	Ember was speaking tersely to Craig, “Director, the intelligence has just probed us. I can now say with perfect assurance what we are dealing with a sophisticated and highly compatible form of intelligent life. Whatever it is, it is a high order psionic, and it just peeled our minds like grapes and downed them whole. I...” Her control over her daughter’s voice gave out for a moment, “I’m a little shaken. I did my best to block Phoenix from their perception,” she revealed. “Hold on a second while we try to hail them.”
	“Wait, Ember!” Craig interrupted, “What do you mean hail them?! You don’t have any idea how to communicate with them!”
	“Don’t be ridiculous, Director, of course I know how to communicate with them, exactly the same way I am communicating with you. Isn’t that one of the reasons why I am on this mission?” Ember challenged.
	Craig was brought up short by the reminder. Ember was right, of course. It had been assumed that a telepath would be able to overcome the barrier of language in an encounter with an unknown intelligence, and the theory had been tested on a number of terrestrial animals, including cetaceans, canines and primates, with success. Some sort of meaningful communication had been achieved with most terrestrial life forms possessed of a nervous system, and the process seemed to be dependent on associative interpretation on the part of the telepath. Only the fact that no government was willing to advertise the existence of telepaths had prevented any from being employed for what Ember was contemplating. Ember was preparing to reach out with her mind so she was already tuning Phoenix out to protect her.
	This was Ember’s dream. First contact. Ember almost could not believe her good luck. She certainly did not blame Phoenix when it proved that she would not allow herself to be cut out of the excitement, so Ember subdued and disguised her daughter-self within her thoughts. Phoenix’s identity willingly submerged itself as Ember probed across the surface of space, feeling for the edges of this unseen intelligence. The overwhelming scan Ember and the crew had just endured had given her a trace to find that alien mind. 
	The only physical limits on the range of telepathy was familiarity. A mind that a telepath knew was easy to find across any gap, but a mind the telepath did not know had to be accessed through a sensory scan of that mind’s physical expression. Ember assumed that that was probably why the alien’s probe had been so intense. She faced the same problem, since she had nothing to train her attention on except the locus of that alien object in space.
	Ember reached out across the void and felt her way into the heart of that brilliant vessel. She could have analyzed the structures of the organic creatures inside its shell and built up a picture of the alien, but her attention was focused on finding a higher organ that would give her access to their thoughts. What she touched was vile. That mind tasted of anger and contempt. In that mind was a prejudice, which Ember realized was already intent on action.
	That was the Adventure’s only warning.
	“They’re attacking!” Mother and daughter’s voices screamed in unison. Time seemed to stop. Ember faced the toughest decision of her life. As her thoughts rested their deadly fingers on the delicate organ of alien intelligence, she knew that for an instant it was vulnerable. That mind was so preoccupied with attack, that it had not recognized her presence. No, she corrected herself, it had to know she had touched it, but it did not seem to consider her a threat. On the Adventure the crew was riveted in shock at her declaration, while in mission control Martin Craig was swearing. Ember pondered that preemptive, decapitating strike for one eternal instant. A voice from her past echoed, a telepath must never act upon what she perceives in another mind, no matter how dire it may seem. The mind is the one part of reality where the unspeakable can be contemplated. Do not be surprised at what you can find in your own, or any other mind. A man is not a murderer until he puts thought to action. A telepath is only free to deny such a man his target. To strike before the killer attacks is to commit the crime first.
	It was Phoenix, desperately repeating the very words Ember had spoken on a day when she had barely prevented her daughter from ripping a man apart with her naked mind. Ember felt the horror of the moment as she stepped back. Everything was still unfolding slowly. Phoenix’s senses relayed to her the commanding sound of Martin Craig’s voice. He had tried to act immediately, issuing orders that the crew of the Adventure was not prepared to execute.
	“Ember! Dive! Dive! Get out of there!” He shouted at Phoenix. Ember was already acting. Ember extended her power to its greatest magnitude and gripped her ship and crew mates in a psychokinetic field. Phoenix was shocked as her mother’s mind seized absolute command of an area in space as large as jupiter. An instinctive, and usually perfect defensive mechanism. Within that sphere, time and space obeyed her will, and by design, anything of a threatening nature was forcefully repelled by the field. Phoenix had never imagined a field so vast and intense. 
	The barrage was violent and sudden. Ember trembled as she realized that they were all still alive. What her mind had experienced was as brutal and invasive as rape, but she had been able to absorb the shock. Through gritted teeth, she told the captain that it would be a good idea to run away as fast as possible. “Dive, Jack,” she grated. “Dive as deep and as far as you can make her. Once this bastard figures out my limits, we are going to get smeared all over the quadrant!” 
	Ember, turned her eyes back out to space and saw something that almost defeated her. The object had been shoved away by her psychokinetic field, but from within it came a burning star. The object faded into steely darkness as this living furnace revealed itself. Ember felt it sear the skin of her PK field and then slowly puncture that body of thought. As she stared at its brilliance, she swore to herself. “How long, Jack?” She strained. “I don’t want to rush you or anything, but they he’s coming in after us.”
	The captain told her that it would only take ten minutes to engage the drive from stand-by, and begin translation for dive. Ember stared at the alien, advancing slowly but relentlessly through her defenses. Descending on them like an angel of death. Very calmly, she admitted to herself that she was afraid. She stretched her abilities trying to slow him down. It was hopeless though. The raw power at the alien’s disposal was an order of magnitude greater than Ember’s. Double a thousand times over what she could hope to manage. Phoenix studied this situation carefully. She could tell that her mother could get away—if she abandoned her ship and her friends. She might even be able to grab her friends, and possibly even the ship, and teleport light years away in the blink of an eye. But if she did that, there would be an instant of vulnerability, when her psychokinetic defenses would drop. Not much chance that it would miss such an opening.
	Phoenix, unable to think of what else she could do, extended all the power she could spare to her mother-self. Phoenix did not dare suggest that Ember flee. Her mother had no intention of leaving her crew mates to that thing’s mercy as long as she had the power to do anything about it. If there had been more time, a way might have been found to take advantage of Ember and Phoenix’s dual foothold in reality. If there had been just ten minutes, the ship could have made a crash translation. In the interface the Adventure could easily lose herself. 
	Ember held out for an eternal seven minutes, as the forces generated from the alien threatened to crush her mind. Phoenix cringed as the strain began to burn out synapses in Ember’s brain. Ember had to give up ground faster and faster as it brought the focus of its power to bear against her defenses. Ember was drawing all she could from her daughter to repel the thrusts of telepathy against her mind. For every mistake she made, it reached through her defenses and slaughtered one of the crew in front of her eyes. Inevitably it burned through the hull of the ship and approached Ember. The few survivors huddled close to her as her defenses were engulfed and compressed, her sphere reduced to a small corner of the bridge. Now, in plain sight, this strange being transformed, taking on the form and features of Ember herself. As if Ember were somehow destroying herself. As it drew close, it burned like the heart of a star. Ember adapted, but the last of her friends perished and evaporated in her arms. 
	Phoenix had lost control of her body by this point, and her mind fused deeper into her mother’s as she devoted her existence to the preservation of the person she loved more than life itself. Ember had done her best, and she would have fled at last, but she discovered that the entity’s power had penetrated the interface to surround her at every accessible dimension. She was cut off from everything but herself. Ember was helpless as it finally touched her. It took her into it’s arms. As if it literally were the heart of a star, Ember felt the crushing weight and searing heat that seeped into her at that final embrace. Cell by cell, she could feel herself being torn out of her flesh. Somewhere in these final moments, the last barriers between mother and daughter collapsed. As one mind they felt the agony of her body burning away in layers as her resistance was overpowered. She focused everything in one final bitter rebuke. Her dying scream pierced the monster’s soul like a searing white hot nail. Her destroyer was staggered for a moment, and she held herself in a final embrace. As one mind she felt the searing orgasm of death as everything that was Phoenix Ember Nin Senior—beloved mother and goddess to a shattered Phoenix—was annihilated in the flesh.

As Phoenix spoke, tears streamed down her face unheeded. Her hands were locked white knuckled on the podium to still their shaking, but her voice remained clear and smooth. She could not stop the bleeding of her soul, but she would not give her benefactors the satisfaction of watching her fold under the weight they had placed on her. She simply cursed them in the silent vaults of her mind. In a deeply guarded and detached part of herself, she pondered her lords and masters. She wondered what they had really been thinking when they forced her into this. Did they think that maybe her wound might heal better for being reopened and liberally bled? The anger was still buried in her pain. With effort she kept her traitorous thoughts out of the stream of her recollection. She had felt how her words reverberated in the more sensitive latent minds giving them an unbearable glimpse of her vision. Journalists of every media were licking their lips at this spectacle; the tragic figure, bravely describing the last moments of the deep space explorer Adventure, while quietly dying her mother’s death in her memory.
	Phoenix could not bear the cross examination certain to follow as she reached the end of her testimony. She could see the Prime Minister watching her with haunted eyes. He accepted his own prepared speech from his top aid, bending his head to hear the man’s words. Phoenix watched him fuss with his notes, and adjust himself in the false privacy of the wings. She summed up the dates, times and notable statistics of her account before stating in a hard edged voice, “There is not much more I can tell you at this time.” 
	She stepped back, skirting around the podium as she talked, and her voice somehow continued to fill the hall, though she had abandoned the microphones, “I know that I said I would answer your questions now, but really—what they all boil down to is: ‘am I for real?’” She stared at them with fierce and still streaming eyes. It did not matter that was she was blind with tears and operating by feel. “I really don’t care to talk about anything more right now,” she said with an ancient voice, at last, “so I am going to cut through the bull shit.” With that, she reached out and grabbed every pen in sight from its owner, and carefully wrote in clear long hand, “Ask yourself!” On whatever paper was handy. With a flourish, she signed the statement before relinquishing the pens. She resisted an urge to grin maliciously, since they had no idea what a simple trick it was to pull off. Before anyone could raise his or her voice, Phoenix scanned the crowd and disintegrated before their eyes.


CHAPTER
III

“Brilliant!” Dreyfus breathed, as the shock of Phoenix’s exit shook the crowd. The whole presentation had gone better than he could have dared hope. Her age, her stoic endurance even as she betrayed her suffering, her flagrant use of telekinesis and the brutal exit had all combined to rivet the world audience. God, was there anything harder to do than rattle a politician? Phoenix sure had. It was beautiful. Even the heads of state and high ranking officials who knew about the Psionic Control Acts—and all it had concealed—had not been prepared for the visceral jolt of Phoenix’s perfectly succinct demonstration. Dreyfus watched with sharp eyes as those two men—what were their names? Arthur and Samuel, yes—artfully detached from the stage security and evaporated into the wings to track down their charge.
	Beside him, Craig was damp and pale. Dreyfus remembered that Craig had a high latent potential. Craig was muttering to himself, “Just like the first time. Just like being there. Not even slightly faded...” Craig mopped his face with a handkerchief. 
	Craig was not the only powerful latent overwhelmed by the overlap of Phoenix’s reflection. Some distance away from Dreyfus, but still seated amongst America’s powerful statesmen, a senator from the state of California sat in awe. There was an air of rapture in his face and posture that seemed to communicate itself to the people around him. With the practiced elegance, and trained charisma of twenty years of holding campaigns and offices in a steady rise, he pretended to shock. As he concealed his true emotions, the ardent fire of devotion and desire flared even stronger from the eyes of his peers, crowded immediately about him. “Perfect!” the senator breathed.
	Dreyfus was not aware that the word had been stolen from his lips.

Phoenix kept a tight grip on herself through the hours that followed. She had managed to stave off the worst of her recollection at the end. An unbearable tension shrieked through her nerves as the greater part of herself remained trapped in that interrupted thought. As before, her mind was threatening to cave in on itself under the weight of that terrible conclusion. She was withdrawn. As much in shock as the people she had stunned. Not surprisingly, her body guards tracked her down in minutes and escorted her a shielded office where she could have privacy even from them. She searched out the concealed video plate, and patched it in to the live broadcast of the scene she had just left. She collapsed into a convenient chair, curling up on herself, and allowed the Prime Minister’s address to invade her thoughts.
	She stared without moving through the whole affair, desperate to know what end her sacrifice was to be put. She made no comment when her keepers came in and rousted her out of the complex and back into the car. Nor did she complain when they took her to a safe house nearby. The afternoon sky did not tempt her to unfold the wings of her mind, as she did not trust her power at the moment. She meekly endured the quick tour of the grounds and her apartment. It was another modern building built in an intentionally old style. The grand furnishings did not impress her through her numbness and the late lunch her polite hosts set out for her was an ordeal. But the food was necessary, so she endured.
	As soon as she could, she excused herself to find a little time and space to put herself back together. Her eyes roved aimlessly over the small clutch of rooms as she secured the door. A relatively open sitting room opened out directly ahead on an enclosed garden. Off on either hand were bedrooms, and further along on the right, what appeared to be a miniature library or study. The floor boards were an ash blond wood that seemed rich with color in the pristine white swath of carpets, upholstery and curtains. Tucked in around the study was a kitchenette and a breakfast room walled in glittering panes of glass. All in all, a very pleasant accommodation, drawn right out of the pages of some architectural digest.
	Phoenix passed through the kitchenette into the breakfast solar, and allowed the sun to wash over her. In her dress, she was a dark apparition all too hungry for the light. With great effort she tried to coax some feeling out of her battered spirit. She was raw from reliving that terrible day. She could not bear the unrelieved suffering and the pall it still cast over her life. If all this time had not allowed her to overcome it, then it was time she finally adapted to it. Although it was not easy, she struggled to put the matter into perspective.
	Phoenix held herself. The solidity of meat and bone stood in sharp contrast to the fragile feeling within. Like delicate crystal dropped on the floor, which miraculously rebounds without shattering, she still resonated from the shock. Forced once again to share one of the most painful moment in her life, Phoenix felt rage. Not the bitter self-devouring rage that had eaten her for most of the past six years, but a naked, healing, hateful anger rising from her thighs, gut and back. The emotion had carried her through the pain. It had taken her weakness and made it into sustaining strength. But it was still rage, and that was what she was afraid of. As Phoenix fingered the beveled panes, she admitted that this was certainly not the last time she would be forced to confront it. 
	She did not see anger as her salvation. It had served a purpose, burning away the emotional block between herself and the outside world. It had opened her eyes. But she still could not see unless she let it go. It sharpened her pain to look at it, but she could see it now. In a terrible way her agony was selfish. There were thousands of mothers, fathers, siblings and children who had felt the amputation of a loved one as intensely—if not as intimately—as Phoenix did. The dying moment that still burned an instant away in her thoughts was just one tiny part of the human cost of Earth’s third encounter with an alien intelligence.
	If she had any sense, she would just let it go. Forget about it and go on. The truth she still clung to was a punishing lover. Phoenix turned her back on the manicured side yard, with its high, ivy covered walls, lush green carpet of grass and proud oak trees. 
	Good advice. She couldn’t just brush it all away, though. 
	Not while she maintained the lie by omission. Perhaps if she had ever been able to speak of it, it might have dislodged the clot in her soul. How many times has she told Dreyfus, Powers and Craig that they didn’t know what they were asking? Of course they did not know! To reveal what that last instant had done to her—or what she had done at that last moment—was simply too terrifying. Her guilt had already condemned her within. To seed suspicion of that guilt in others, to face the growth of their condemnation as well, was beyond contemplation. She covered her face with her hands. Oh! When they had guarded her against suicide, she had thought, surely they must know! Eventually she had realized that, while they had detected her suicidal thoughts, they had not uncovered what had given birth to them. Phoenix’s head snapped up, as she suddenly thrust those thoughts out of her head. She was not as far out of the woods as she had thought. It was so easy to slide back. She tried not to think about it.
	She didn’t want to go through it all again.
	As her fingers nervously rubbed against each other, she noticed the stain of makeup her tears had made wet again. The lady’s words suddenly came back to her, be sure to come back in here afterwards and get this crap cleaned off. It would be a shame to ruin your complexion by forgetting. Phoenix’s lips gave a wry twist. She did not fear for her complexion, but there was no denying that she had forgotten. She wondered how long it had been on, but her sense of time was distorted. It didn’t matter, at least it gave her something to do besides thinking. With graceful purpose, her legs carried her back down the short hall, through the sitting room and into the bedroom. She delighted in peeling out of her dress, and throwing herself into a long, hot, steaming shower.
	She buried her troubled thoughts in the pleasant sensations of heat, and the fluid rush over her flesh. The bathroom was a pleasant contrast to the bleached apartment. Its walls, floor, washbasins—even the shower—carved from black marble. In the huge, sunken oval, Phoenix was tempted to ignore the multiple fixtures that sprayed converging streams of steaming water, in favor of a long, sinful soak in that vast basin. But the caressing thrill of the shower was a more stimulating antidote for depression. The sting and tickle of the hard spray, the endless hot caress as the coursing fluid clung to her curves, aroused her, teased the innocent passion of the senses. 
	Phoenix slid her fingers slowly down her front. From her throat, they glided over her breasts, off her ribs and along her belly. Her hands cupped the curves of bone separating her abdomen from her hips, as they traversed the upper corners of her pelvis. Her arms straightened to their limit, and her palms settled on the fronts of her thighs, thumbs pointing inward at her pubic arch. She smiled faintly. Her healing had started in a shower. In long dark days, when she had lost the ability to love herself, her body’s flowering into womanhood had seduced her. The strange yearnings, the wonderful feelings that awoke under her accidental touch, tricked her into taking an interest in life. Her right hand slid inward, brushing across the tops of tight, damp curls. It had happened innocently enough at first. That first stirring, that faint thrill that translated itself to something deep within—the sensation of touch was so intoxicatingly now. It had no sense of past. It was always new. 
	She had not understood what she was feeling. Her mother taught her about the mysteries of sex before her death, but Phoenix had not really understood the hunger at the root of the issue. The trauma she had suffered—and the maimed telepathic reflex it had caused—made sex inaccessible before her body was ready for her to explore her passions. Her fingers curled in, confining her sex without making contact. It had been easy to assume that, unable to bear the touch of another, her sexuality could not be touched. Maybe there had even been an inhibition, an acquired aversion to the idea of consciously touching herself. 
	The water flowing down her body, ran along her arm, deflecting from her cupped fingers to stream between her legs. Licking at her lips. Her eyes closed. The flesh had so many shades of sensitivity, a spectrum of sensualities. It was not so strange, given that a body instinctively savored any new flavor. She had not thought about it, she had simply become mesmerized by the complexity and depth of the mystery she had stumbled across in herself. Once she had discovered the unbounded pleasure that was within her grasp—that was so easy to give herself in contrast the pain she had so ruthlessly inflicted on herself for so long—Phoenix had found a way out. Locked long into self hatred, suddenly she had release. The abandonment of passion. A kind of momentary selflessness. A remove from which she could finally see herself, hurt and bleeding. 
	In a moment of detachment, she felt compassion for that wounded soul. She recognized a need to heal—to be healed. What difference did it make that the person who needed her love and support was also herself? What good did it do to judge herself as she slowly taught herself how to make love to herself? Wasn’t it worth it when she was finally able to respond to that compassion? Was it so strange to fall in love with oneself?
	Did it make her more or less whole?
	As she freed her hands to explore, she chose not to answer. Her fingers dipped across the threshold and her hunger stirred awake. Her telekinesis unfolded as trust in herself returned. Through her mind she became her own invisible lover, never wholly understanding the depths in herself which she tapped to encompass this strange embrace. Phoenix simply accepted it, unconcerned by the paradox of her polarized unity. Awed that she could feel love directed at her from a remote part of herself. So honest and uncomplicated, she could not doubt its sincerity, even as she struggled to understand why she deserved it. The dance itself exceeded her grasp, as she knew herself in both active and passive modes of this lovemaking. She knew she was doing this to herself. And yet she strove to elicit responses from her body, as if it were some beloved other person. And yet, she felt delightfully vulnerable to the teasing, probing, ecstatic touch of this worshipful lover. She was utterly lost and it was wonderful. 
	Above all, what she could see, so clear within her surrender, assured her heart. She could see the grief that was replacing self hatred. Her terrible, psychic cancer had gone into remission. But only fitfully. The hard cyst was being eroded away. The poisons and debris were finally cycling out of her spirit, as the horrible, self-inflicted wound prepared to close. But, she was still afraid. She knew how very little it would take to wake up that devouring mass. So, she gave herself up to the licking of the water and the comfort of her hands and telekinesis.
	It was strange, but she could accept, in spite of all the pain, in spite of how deeply she hated herself for unspeakable reasons, she did love herself. Not a selfish love, for she would only despise herself more for narcissism. A selfless love. An abandonment to something wondrous and mysterious, which could swallow any suffering. Phoenix sensed it, but she really could not explain it. It was not something she needed to know in words. She carefully kept her mind neutral—engaged, but not geared for thought.
	Held in the grip of her mind, in the grip of her senses, Phoenix dissolved in exquisite torture. Impaled on the selfless gift, slowly mounting into shudders of release. When she was spent, she held her shaking, glowing body telekinetically erect. She was at once removed from and restored to herself. She barely noticed that the water had long since gone cold, even as it rinsed away the traces of her passion. As she stepped out of the spray and sluiced water from her skin, she could not help appraising the image in the mirror. At first the mirror revealed to her only a mask.
	Her eyes drank in both face and body. Very plain, lacking in character, and almost too symmetrical to live in, she criticized at a glance. There was a sculpted perfection to her body which was disturbing. Mathematically, her form seemed ideal. Elegant in its simplicity, but like a mannequin, somehow artificial and enigmatic. She did not believe herself to be beautiful, but she could admit to herself that at least she was well made. Long of limb and firm of muscle, she was a lean and healthy animal. She smiled at that thought. How appropriate, like some perfect camouflage, so intricate in its attention to detail that it cannot help but reveal that the person is really only some animal in disguise! She shook her head wryly. It did not matter, beauty and humanity were illusions she did not understand well enough to wear. She was content to take satisfaction in her body by knowing that, as a vehicle to life’s experiences, it was well suited to her tastes.
	Perhaps it was a side effect of her self healing. She had developed a sense of pride in her body, but she was a pale reflection of Ember. Phoenix did not understand that particular mystery. On her mother the same features had been exotically beautiful, while on her they just seemed somehow unfinished. Her body had matured, and in it she had received a legacy from her mother she did not know how to deal with. She took after her so well that any reflection brought her back to her.
	In spite of herself, she could not avoid confronting herself—the ghosts of herself. It always caught her unaware, she found herself trapped by the eyes in the mirror and for a moment she would forget. The mirror became an open window, and Phoenix saw a young woman of sensuous line and curve. Damp, her hair was the color of a brooding coal. She was staring at her through opalescent, dove gray eyes. Phoenix dropped her gaze and watched her brush beads of moisture off of her skin. Her flesh was translucent and pale, like something carved from moonstone or mother of pearl.
	As she looked at her, her mother gave her a comforting smile. She looked so sad, so alone, and Phoenix wished so much she had not died! She felt a sudden stab. As Ember picked up her thoughts, her expression turned to worry and deep compassion. Caught in the illusion, her defenses were down and Phoenix lost her grip on what she had been holding off. She reeled back as the memories unfolded. As Phoenix’s mind flashed back to Ember’s death, her mother’s face turned away in agony.
	The last coherent moment returned to her. The bridge of the Adventure slumping around her in the awesome heat of the alien’s presence. The monster, wearing her own face, was shaking off her one desperate blow and focusing its power for the coup de grace. For a moment she held herself in a final embrace and then she felt the searing orgasm of death as everything that was her—her mother—was annihilated in the flesh.
	She felt her—her mother’s?—last thoughts shifting up into the interface and tried to hold herself together. She had been one mind existing in two bodies when she—her mother—died. But the horror did not end with death. After the shock wore off she realized she still had an anchor back to reality. A bridge across which she could retreat and survive. Phoenix opened her eyes, and they could not completely register the dark marble forms of the bathroom. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw... 
	Her mind recoiled from the paradox.
	At a second glance, the painful illusion shattered. Not her other self. Her reflection. She stared into the glass until the ache was bearable. Once again, she faced the most difficult question in her—Ember’s? Phoenix’s?—life: who am I? In her mind she was her own daughter. In her memory she was her own mother. She held onto her gaze until she had regained her sense of identity. A mother and a daughter died that day, and whatever she was had been born from the ashes. 
	A wave of self hatred thrashed in her soul. The torment of a mother at realizing that she had devoured her only daughter to survive. The angst of a daughter who knew that, in desperation, and out of inexperience, she had consumed the one person she loved rather than let her go. A mind polarized by guilt, each side trying to save the other by taking the blame. Only the love between and underlying her shattered parts held her together. If she could just find a way to resolve the unbearable guilt! If there were just some way to absolve her soul! Her hands fisted. If only I could trust anyone enough to talk about it.
	At that thought she managed to escape from the cancer in her soul. Trust. That was the second casualty of the whole ordeal. If experiencing the death of her mother had not been bad enough by itself, the horrible union of their minds also destroyed her childhood. The truth about psionic research, the government cover-up, the use of psionic ability by the government to develop technology for the exploration of space and all the other experiences and memories of her mother’s life had exploded through her mind at the instant of her death light years away.
	All during the long days when she tried to shut the world out, those memories had  torn her apart. While her mind had reeled, unable to find any foundation in the conflicting storm of thoughts, ideas and emotions, these bits of information warred with each other. The death trauma unhinged the part of her that identified itself as Ember, while the revelations of Ember’s unguarded mind shredded every single illusion on which her identity as Phoenix was founded. Their separate and inescapably fused personalities resonated with a destructive feedback. As love was warped by horror and guilt, and sanity gave way to perverse madness, the only clear and focused emotion which she had been capable of was rage. 
	She could not deal with what she learned in any other way. There were all of those pieces, but nothing of either identity had been able to pull any of those pieces together. Her minds had been too much alike at their cores. In essence, at the most important level, there was no way for them to tell each other apart. So, neither could assert itself. The flawless way mother and daughter fit together had turned against them when there had suddenly been no objective way to separate them from each other. It finally became a question of what she had to be to go on. The outrage of discovering the lies and deceits perpetrated by the Psionic Reservation and Research Project system became an obsession. As the pieces came together, the rage grew. 
	That was where her resurrection began. She fed on the loss and hurt. Restoring her entire childhood with the added perspective of truth. She reclaimed the happiness while acquiring an anguish for an innocence that had been destroyed. In recreating everything she gained a wounded appreciation for it all. They had created an ideal place for her to grow up—far better than the civilian world outside it. They had given her a perfect childhood and it had turned out to be a carefully crafted lie. She even had to share the guilt, since as her mother, she had gone along with it all.
	Among the terrible secrets she never suspected were hidden in her mind, which she discovered as she rebuilt it, was that one of her responsibilities as Ember was to destroy herself as Phoenix, should she ever prove mentally unstable; perversely inclined toward violent, or abusive behavior. Angel of wrath that she had become, this served as a warning that surely saved her life by forcing her to temper the rage at her heart.
	She found it amazing that she, or any other child on the reservation, survived growing up, in light of that discovery. Children could be so cruel, and it did not seem possible that she or her peers had been innocent of juvenile malice. It said something about the effectiveness of the cultural conditioning which had been orchestrated by the reservation planners. People like Mark Dreyfus had invented the world she had grown up in. They had dictated the styles and modes of dress, the melding of nineteenth and twenty-first century technologies into farming communities of telecommuting professionals, a home school system in which a child got the best possible education through the personal attention of her own parents. Nothing was left to chance, and every influence was subject to strict control. But, as artificial as life on the reservation proved to be, she realized that it was only part of a greater effort intent on assuring that the world at large never had to deal with the fact that she was one of the most dangerous human beings ever born.
	But now, that effort had come to an end. Phoenix’s head raised in alert thought. The lie was coming undone! There might be hope yet.

Phoenix awoke with a start. Her arms and legs were bound in a frightening grip. The dark and the unfamiliar surroundings combined to set her heart tripping in her chest. The weight of dreamless sleep lay over her still, a thick blanket isolating her in timelessness. She started thrashing before details could penetrate her disorientation. The binding constriction resolved into a sheet, wildly entangled around her naked body. Before she could grasp anything more of her surroundings, a second thump disturbed the silence. Phoenix shook herself further awake. The parts of her mind that could grasp and alter reality still slumbered. She didn’t have the energy to throw off the weight that paralyzed her psionic gifts. Her ears strained to make out what lurked on the other side of her door. She felt far more naked and vulnerable than nudity could account for. 
	Phoenix bit her lip. So much of her training had focused on ensuring that she never became wholly reliant on her mental abilities. There were simply too many things that could cause the higher faculties to go dormant. Emotional stress being high on the list. 
	Phoenix was sliding out of bed, wrapping the sheet more carefully around her when the reason for her sense of danger revealed itself. Her attention was drawn to the door by the soft footfall. Before her eyes, the door exploded inward in a hail of splinters. Phoenix cringed before the shock wave, even as her reflex to project a deflecting field around herself proved impotent. A figure stood in the shattered opening, backlit by light thrown out from all the way back in the kitchenette. Phoenix stood still as the figure stalked up to her. Behind the strange female, Phoenix could see her body guards, Arthur and Samuel, run into the sitting room.
	Phoenix faded back under the stranger’s advance, until her spine was to the wall. There was a dream-like quality to the moment, as her potential refused to wake up and come to her defense. Phoenix looked into the woman’s face, unable to make out anything more than a caricature of her features in the dark. She was staring at Phoenix, her eyes smoldering and feral. She pressed forward, bodily crushing Phoenix against the wall. Her hands came up and covered Phoenix’s face. The woman leaned into her, her head bowing over Phoenix’s shoulder, nestled against her neck. Pinned, Phoenix felt tendrils of foreign thought bore into her mind. Her fear finally kicked in. She snapped awake. The details of the room crystallized in her awareness, as if someone had turned on the lights. 
	The stranger’s presence among her thoughts thrust deep into her wounded soul, perforce opening herself to Phoenix through this forced intimacy. Just before Phoenix could marshal her strength to eject the intruder from her mind, her inner eye fell upon a terrible image nesting deep within the stranger’s core. A ship being devoured by a man sized star. Phoenix’s hands locked on the woman’s shoulders, forcing her back far enough for their eyes to meet. The stranger’s features resolved. The face before her was unfamiliar, but she recognized the pain that dwelt there. Loss, anger, grief, and above all guilt. Phoenix could see recognition enter the other’s eyes, even as she acknowledged what she had seen, to herself.
	Those haunted eyes suddenly spilled over, and with a heavy sigh, she collapsed in Phoenix’s arms. Phoenix stared at the woman as she eased her onto her bed. So, this was her catatonic patient, she mused. Phoenix checked her over as she laid her out on the bed. She had withdrawn back into herself. As Phoenix tried to step away to recover the sheet she had lost in the encounter, the stranger’s hand snapped out and gripped her arm hard.
	“It’s okay,” Phoenix said at once, “I just need to cover myself up.” Indeed, she grinned, as her keepers stood gaping at the demolished doorway, in the company of other control agents Phoenix did not know. The hand relaxed. Phoenix slipped away, arms held out of the way as the sheet snaked up and around her torso. Finally, she turned to face the group of men. “Arthur?” She invited with an arched brow. She was pleased to see the heat in his face, suggesting that he had the decency to blush as he stood gawking.
	Arthur eased into the room and joined her at the bedside. “Ah, yes, I suppose introductions are in order,” he said with a slight smile. Phoenix glanced at him sideways and wondered if he had been chosen to chaperone her on the basis of his fatherly personality. Given the fact that she had never known the identity of her father, not even from complete access to her mother’s memories, it seemed a natural enough weakness for the agency to try to exploit. That was how the whole business worked, she figured. The big brains figured out what the holes were in her life and filled them with carefully chosen surrogates. Still, she had not decided to hold it against arthur. Yet.
	Phoenix shrugged, “Well, I assume that this is the pilot from the Intrepid,” she aired with irony. Arthur looked at her with a grin, and rubbed the back of his head.
	“Yes, of course,” he said, “This is Naomi Eden Harkin. According to the security detail that accompanied her, she doesn’t do anything volitional. She has to be told to eat, to go to sleep. She has to be walked through bathing and waste elimination. They said that she will carry out complex instructions to the smallest detail, sparing no attention. But only that far. No initiative what so ever. And then she does this,” he gestured at the recumbent form in Phoenix’s bed. “She was told to wait out front while we moved her stuff in. But the next time someone looked up she had disappeared. We didn’t know where she had gone until she tripped the wire on your door. Are you all right?” He asked finally.
	“Caught me napping,” Phoenix responded. “If she had meant any harm I suppose I would be cat food by now,” she smiled charmingly. Phoenix sat down on the edge of her bed and smoothed a lock of hair out of Naomi’s face. “You know, I was a zombie too for a while. You have to remember, she’s still in there. A prisoner of herself, but she still has the keys. She knows what’s going on around her, it is just irrelevant compared with what she’s dealing with inside,” Phoenix offered. She took one of naomi’s hands in her own. “See what can be done about the mess, hey? I’ll fix it up when I have a chance. I’m sure there s other stuff you all need to do. We’ll be fine, so go ahead,” she dismissed. Arthur caught the hint, and ushered the rest of the crowd out of the doorway.
	Phoenix leaned close to her patient and said cheerfully, “Well, Naomi, you are a wreck. I hope you want to get better real quick, because I need someone to talk to too.”

“Is it just human nature, that every discovery has to be questioned and subjected to demands for proof?” Phoenix asked in disgust. She was sitting in the solar with her two body guards, watching the morning news while they ate breakfast. “In particular, why is it that the first reaction to the demonstration of psionic potential, is the suspicion of fraud?” She complained. The guest speaker, a prominent physicist, was explaining in detail why Phoenix’s claims the previous morning had to be part of some elaborate hoax. The host interrupted the man’s arcane monologue of equations, challenging the physicist with the accounts of a thousand world leaders, and twice as many seasoned journalists who had witnessed her demonstration first hand. 
	“Stage magicians and con-artists have been dazzling live audiences since the dawn of civilization,” the distinguished gentleman on the screen proclaimed, “I would expect a little slight of hand to accentuate a theatrical swindle such as the Prime Minister of the Solar Authority is perpetrating. The governments of Earth have been throwing away billions of dollars a year on the fruitless pursuit of psionic research. All on the basis of some clever mathematical double talk purporting to be a unified field theory. What is really going on is quite simple and certainly far more plausible; this whole show was to set the stage for a demand for more money and the appropriation of even more resources to feed the growth of the Solar Authority and the Aegis. I don’t care how many teary-eyed little girls are paid to stand up and make ridiculous claims, a hoax is a hoax, and you will see soon enough what the price tag of this swindle will be.”
	Phoenix glared, and killed the power. Neither of the men sitting with her felt the urge to respond to her irate questions. It seemed obvious to them why sane, educated men would get up on their soap boxes and deny the whole thing just out of principle. As Arthur recalled, a certain number of control agent trainees washed out of the program because they simply could not rationalize the facts presented to them, to fit into their world views. Phoenix did not need to read their silent minds to see that either. Her gut feeling was that people were generally afraid of potential such as she possessed.
	That was part of what she had felt when she stood up alone in front of the world to make a claim that sounded impossible. If she had been in any condition to think clearly before she got out in front of the cameras she would not have given in to the urge to rush through it as fast as possible, and duck out like she had. It had been a set up, and she had been asked on the spot for unquestionable proof. If she had known what her actions would end up committing her to, she would have braved the questions instead.
	That point came home when the three stooges showed up after breakfast. 
	Mark Dreyfus, Chad Powers and her “old friend” Martin Craig settled in and took possession of her sitting room. Naomi annoyed them by choosing that moment to attach herself to Phoenix on the settee in the center of the room. Considering that the three directed her body guards to activate their portable damper before getting to business, it was a good thing Phoenix was right on hand to see Naomi through the frightening activation of the null field. It only felt like one was having her mind ripped out by the roots, a sensation made worse by any attempt to fight the effect. After calming Naomi down, Phoenix spared a thought to wonder what a latent felt, if anything, in the grip of a damper.
	“Please don’t,” Phoenix said, breaking the silence as Powers produced a cigar and bent to light it. He glared at her and she gestured around her, “White decor, I’m sorry.” He put it away and continued to scowl. Phoenix sat up and took a lively breath. “So, to what do I owe the honor?” She asked pleasantly.
	“Have you been watching the news, or maybe some of the talk shows, since yesterday?” Dreyfus asked. 
	Phoenix nodded. With a deep sigh she confessed, “That’s what I thought. I know I was supposed to go through a full demonstration there at the end.” She shook her head.  Looking up she almost pleaded, “I’m sorry. I just... I didn’t think I could hold myself together through a long block of questions. I tried to tell you that I haven’t gotten over the worst of it. I thought if I could just get through that part it would be enough.”
	Naomi was watching her intently. Phoenix wondered if she had been allowed to watch the live coverage of the disclosure. It might explain the way the otherwise catatonic pilot reacted to her. Dreyfus was responding to Phoenix’s defense.
	“Phoenix, we’re not here to criticize. I think you did a wonderful job. Even if you had followed the book in establishing your credentials with the public, I am sure the reactions would have been the same.”
	“Objection is an instinctive reaction to most official pronouncements,” Powers joked. He fiddled with his unlit cigar, putting it in his mouth and taking it out again several times before adding, “Of course, we here know that this time the objections are unfounded. As we said, it would not have been all that long before the world would have had to face it anyway. A demonstration, and the definition of your abilities, really only amounts to opening the door. The real work follows.”
	Phoenix nodded slightly. Her eyes measured the men, and she decided that they owed her one answer, in exchange for exposing herself for their needs. “What do ‘we’ intend for this revelation to accomplish?” She asked. “I mean, what end result, what goal, is worth cracking open Pandora’s Box like this?” She added.
	“Just what we told you initially,” craig offered. “We need to do something to ensure the survival of the human race. We have the technical capability to embark on colonization on a massive scale. We just don’t have as much time to build up to it as we originally had thought. It is a simple thing really, we can’t afford to keep all of our eggs in one basket.”
	“So what does that mean in the present?” She questioned.
	“Well,” said Dreyfus, “in legislative terms, the Prime Minister is hoping to win support for an accelerated space colonization and militarization effort. Most of the support and funding will actually come out of the Aegis, but it will cost the citizens of Earth a pretty penny as well. That man, Pritchert, the physicist who never had the clearance to touch the PRRP derived technology, he zeroed in on that sharp enough. What needs to be done cannot be done without strenuous reallocation of resources and funds. That is the immediate problem. People like him can’t see the bigger picture, so they will almost certainly negatively impact public opinion, and hamper most governments’ efforts to act decisively.”
	Phoenix nodded. It fit in with the other pieces pretty well. Now she could say she knew why they did it. The disclosure of both psionics and the alien threat, the rationale behind what they had asked of her was legitimate. They were facts and she could not dispute them. “Which brings you three back to me,” she finally pressed.
	Dreyfus smiled. “Sharp girl,” he praised. “Indeed, it does come back to you. We do have a proposal for you, but perhaps you can guess what we have in mind, eh? What clued you in?” He asked. Powers and Craig looked at the man who was establishing himself as their spokesman. Each in his own way was trying to see how the canny old man managed to handle what was being recognized as a hostile asset.
	Phoenix shrugged. “You provided the facts. I don’t have to tell you what they are, but when these facts combined to make me a public figure, well,” another shrug, and her eyes went past them to gaze out the patio doors into the enclosed garden. How did she say she had found that she could not simply walk away once the bomb had been dropped? What the government wanted was unbelievably expensive, and they needed popular support. “That’s what you want, isn’t it? A public figure. You picked me because I could minimize the initial exposure. In order to pull it off, someone has to go out there and convince the public. Lucky me, I get to be the champion of an international effort to save the human race! But what does that mean in real terms?” She turned it around, pressing once again for real information.
	“You have made it clear that you don’t want to go back to working on the Interface Systems Project,” Dreyfus said. “In fact, the indications are that you are not comfortable with the reservation system at all. I get the feeling that you understand what it is about as well as I do. I am sure that there’s nothing you want more than to blow the cover off the whole charade. I am sure you realize that in the end it will leave you without anywhere to hide,” he admonished. Phoenix nodded. He echoed her nod and sighed, “Well, there’s nothing for it now. What we need now, most of all, is to expose people to the truth.”
	“The truth,” she said, mostly to herself. “So, what, do I go back in front of the cameras tell them all about the system? What do you want me to do?” She asked.
	“Oh, I imagine that you will have to explain a lot of things, but what is vital is that you make people believe. There is only one way to erase all doubt in the public mind. The most important work cannot be done on camera. Everyone knows that nothing you see on television can be taken for granted. What we are offering you is far more demanding. What you have to do is allay their doubts. Diffuse their suspicions. We want you to go out and demonstrate your abilities live—and these demonstrations have to hit people in the gut,” he declared. “We are empowering you with the responsibility of introducing the world to psionics. We leave it in your hands to decide what it will take to convince the world, we will support your decisions.”
	Phoenix’s eyebrows shot up. “You’re not going to be telling me what to do?”
	“You are a free agent, Phoenix,” he said, giving powers a hard look. Chadwick powers forced himself to meet the girls eyes and nod. “We’re all in this for the species, Phoenix. We want the same thing you want. The question is, are you ready to be the first active free citizen on Earth?”


CHAPTER
IV

Phoenix leaned back in her chair and ran a hand over the slim leather wallet in her lap. Dreyfus had not been kidding when he said she was being given her freedom. It had taken her a week to acquaint herself with the piles of paperwork weighing down the table. Every detail of her legal and financial identity had been turned over to her during the intervening days. Some of the details had been surprising, like the fact that she, and presumably every other resident of the reservation system, was a native citizen of the Aegis by birth. And, though she had never known it, she had been paid a respectable salary as a contractor for the Interface Systems Project. Although not as impressive as what her mother had earned in her time, which also came to her as Ember’s legacy. Just the insurance alone, which had been paid to her for her mother’s death—finally—was staggering. She was rich several times over. She had diplomatic papers and the only free active license for the practice of psionic abilities in the world. 
	She had been bought off quite handsomely!
	The key to her freedom and fortune nested in the rich suede card-jacket in her lap. That one gene-printed card was coded with every detail in the mountain of hard-copy documentation before her. In less than an hour she had to witness as every scrap of paper was sealed in a psi-damped vault on the premises of one of the most prestigious legal and financial holding firms in the Solar System. Once that was done, she became sole, exclusive property of herself, for the rest of her life.
	Or until any of the clauses buried in the fine print of her license were tripped.
	Phoenix had not been able to slip away from the table for an instant from the moment the card had been placed in her hands. She brooded over piles of paper like a mother over a new born baby. Arthur Remington and Samuel Malthus had packed up and gone back to where ever they hailed from that morning. Her license made her a control agent, in effect, and Naomi Harkin had been entrusted solely to her care on that basis. She was so nervous, and so elated, that she really didn’t know what to do with herself. Her only fear was that if she let her guard down for a second, somehow it would all slip away from her and she would be back on her leash, wondering how she lost it all.
	When the lawyer finally showed up with an army of paralegals to cart her official existence off to the vaults, Phoenix waved them off. Before their eyes, she telekinetically sorted and stacked the documents into one easily manageable mass and walked it out to the van waiting out front. When the lawyer tried to wave her into his limousine, she simply grinned and climbed into the back of the unfinished van. Naomi rushed out of the house, jumping in beside Phoenix. The lawyer shook his head and got in the limo, which pulled ahead of the van to lead them all to the firm.
	A couple of hours later, Phoenix emerged from the building into the daylight. She held her arms out wide and took a deep breath. Naomi actually laughed and clapped her hands as Phoenix let out a whoop of joy and danced around in victory. In a mood for pure extravagance, Phoenix made a beeline straight for the biggest car dealer in the space-port city. After a lavish tour of the showroom, Phoenix picked out a sleek black Ferrari modeled on the classic 308, and paid in cash from the thick wad she had received from her lawyer. She immediately retracted the roof of the hard-top convertible. For the first time in her life, she got behind the wheel of a car. While the engine purred, she released her senses to interrogate the workings and capabilities of the powerful machine, and let it tell her what she had to do. 
	After a few turns around the vast parking lot, she felt confident enough to move out into traffic. With a wicked look at her charge, Phoenix declared, “All right girl, now we are going to have some fun!” Naomi let out an excited gasp as Phoenix put the pedal to the metal, weaving in and out of traffic under heart stopping acceleration, guided by senses that missed nothing. Eyes glinting, Phoenix darted through the streets in which the other cars seemed parked compared to her impossible progress. All her life, she had wanted, just once, to let it all out, the hell with rules! She really was an exception. She knew what the other drivers were going to do before they did; she saw in every direction, around corners, and through buildings. She could feel the ebb and flow of pedestrians like blood cells moving to a pulsing heart. Not even the lights could defeat her timing. 
	Just when it seemed like Naomi could not take another moment without breaking her silence, Phoenix shot into a parking lot, and pulled in to a just vacated parking space, popping the transmission out of gear and standing up on the brakes. With a wild yell, she arched back in the seat, psychokintetically engaging the parking break, and killing the engine. Turning, out of breath, to her companion, she smiled, “What do you say we stop for a bite to eat?”
	Naomi stared at her as if she was mad. Phoenix just laughed. Checking her watch—she had had to get one when she lost her entourage—she saw that she was right on time. Sobering just a bit, she turned back to the withdrawn pilot. “Well, it’s time to pay for this freedom. I have to do this interview thing, to get the ball rolling. Don’t worry, I’ll do all the talking,” she grinned.

Monica Brodin, a renowned columnist and current events headliner for life.net.vr magazine, was waiting for them inside. The powerful media syndicate backing the reporter was staking its reputation on the word of it’s “on the spot” reporters that Phoenix’s short demonstration was genuine. Ms. Brodin could barely conceal her lust for this exclusive, first interview. Phoenix’s eyes passed over the small crew of technicians who would finesse the live net publication. She could not resist the urge to scan the reporter, who, with her sensory augmentation, provided an immediate, intimate, virtual reality audience with almost telepathic access to the interview. Phoenix had studied the neural interfacing technology during her psi-med training. In spite of the fact that the technology was developmental, and evolving too fast for the industry to keep up, a percentage of media and net professionals, roughly equal in number to that of actives in the world, opted for the invasive augmentation and paid through the nose to receive all the upgrades as they came out. 
	Of course, the military had possed the technology for a few hundred years, and she had been augmented in embryo with the most advanced military interface in development—courtesy of the fact that her mother had been drafted the minute she had fallen into ASIA hands. Not that she had ever been allowed to use it. The training that would have come in just under a year might now never come. As a psionic, she had faced a minimum of eight years in the armed services to earn her license to practice psionics outside of military or reservation jurisdiction. In spite of her initial despair, she had actually begun looking forward to her term in the navy—compared to what she had gone through in the Avatar Program, the Academy sounded like a dream. But now, she had a choice about whether to join the Navy, or remain in the Avatar Program. 
	Or, that was what it looked like at the moment.
	Monica Brodin, she could tell, had the very latest commercial gene-crafted viral augmentation. She had to respect a person who endured three months of dying in the-fires-of-hell kind of pain that required. The viral gene-resequencing techniques allowed a person to be physically redesigned with artificially engineered biological structures that replaced the clumsy nerve-splice interface. While a person was at it, they could have their height, mass, physique, skin-hair-and-eye coloring or even their sex altered, since the process had to take the body apart at the essential molecular level anyway. That was the catch. Even with immune suppression, the process provoked massive reactions during the recoding phase where the body did its damnedest to kill itself or tear apart—with fatal success, in about one in a thousand cases. On the bright side, the alterations, being genetically coded, bred true in the next generation.
	Phoenix took the lady’s hand, “Ms. Brodin. I hope we won’t have to wait long for our table. I’m starving.” Phoenix smiled, concealing the shock as her telepathic reflex leapt at the contact. She had not expected herself to interpret the reporter’s net linkage as a threat, and when she felt herself cross over into the virtual stream, through Ms. Brodin, she was doubly shocked. For a moment she was utterly lost, as the depth of that information realm sucked her in. As she foundered, she finally realized why telepaths had been denied virtual access to the nets, back on the reservation. 
	“Ms. Nin?” a voice asked from afar. “Are you all right?”
	“I’m sorry,” she heard herself say, “I didn’t realize you were logged on already.” Phoenix cringed. Exerting herself, she wrenched herself out of the strange mental construct, before her unconscious mind embarrassed her again. She might as well have said, Sure, I’m fine, I just jumped into your head and got lost for a moment! Nice decor! Phoenix shook her head as her normal sensory input reasserted itself.
	Their little luncheon party got itself sorted out shortly. They followed the waitress up the stairs to the table, which was right at the edge of the balcony overlooking the terraces below them. The many tiered restaurant specialized in seventeen different world cuisines, and devoted a terrace and kitchen to each. The restaurant faced into the enclosed atrium of a five star hotel. The open space described a complex inverted triangular polygon stacked on top of a squat, spheroid cavity even further below.
	As they took their seats, Phoenix had a moment of confusion as she felt a disembodied attention focus on her. She could not figure out what it was until she looked back at the reporter. Phoenix disguised her growing agitation as she felt a multitude of diverse observers pack in behind the eyes of her interviewer. The effect was so counter-intuitive her defenses went into high gear. In a way it was exciting. She was amazed to realize how, in spite of having conceptually grasped the understanding of what she would have to deal with, the reality she confronted frightened her deeply. She ordered for herself and Naomi, with the total appearance of calm. Phoenix wondered if Naomi had picked up on what she was perceiving. Then she reminded herself that her patient existed in an almost constant state of shock, so a lack of reaction on Naomi’s part did not necessarily mean much. Once the waiter departed, the reporter opened the conversation. Realizing that nothing that happened in Ms. Brodin’s presence would be off the record, Phoenix schooled herself to think of it as dining with an old friend and ignore the legion of eaves-droppers.
	Ms. Brodin started with an observation. “You seem pretty young. If you don’t mind my pointing it out, I think that is probably the first thing that confused me. In your disclosure, you said that the events you described happened six years ago. I guess it is a reflex, to picture you looking six years younger, after hearing that, and draw the wrong conclusion. Naturally, you must be older than you look to be involved as you were when your... Well, when the events you described happened.”
	Phoenix gave a slight smile as Ms. Brodin dodged around openly mentioning her mother’s death. “No. Actually, you probably guessed right the first time. I am only seventeen, now. At the time it happened I was still a child.”
	Ms. Brodin raised an eyebrow. “So, you were like, some kind of child prodigy then?” She asked. “I mean you were only, what, eleven years old? What was it like knowing you were so special?’
	Phoenix laughed softly. “I have read books, fiction, about growing up with psychic abilities. You know, the classic stuff from the end of the twentieth century—comic books, I think that’s what they called them then. Very imaginative stuff, and I’m sure they have influenced our cultural thinking. I am sure you expect that my childhood was terrible exciting. The truth is, I had no idea that I was special,” Phoenix revealed. “I never realized I existed in a controlled environment. I was trained, like all the other children on the reservation, to develop and master the abilities of my body and mind. But those abilities were not unique where I grew up.” Phoenix shrugged her shoulders. 
	“You had no suspicion at all that you were different from most of the people in the world?” Monica Brodin queried uncertainly. She wanted to focus on Phoenix. Each of her questions was geared toward drawing her out, revealing the person behind the sensation rather than concentrating on the sensation itself. 
	“I was aware that I had a degree of talent,” Phoenix answered, being almost deliberately obtuse, “but of course all of us had our strengths, so I never perceived anything exceptional in what I could do.”
	“But, if you were average for a child where you grew up, how did you end up involved in a classified government research project?”
	“Obviously, in a real sense I did have special qualifications, otherwise why would I have been considered for a work-study contract? I guess it had more to do with attitude than obvious merit,” Phoenix offered. “I was told that, because I learned quickly and applied myself to new challenges with creativity and determination, I could be relied on to take responsibilities seriously. I got involved primarily so I could help my mother with her work. I didn’t know that we were working for the government on highly classified research. As far as I was aware, we were all perfectly normal people and so I never had to deal with the fact that I was one of the most dangerous human beings ever born on Earth.”

“Shit!” Powers exclaimed. Like the rest of the men in the chamber, he was not equipped for virtual net linking. The thirty men assembled in the circular theater were watching the same hologram, all seeing the same view in spite of being seated in concentric rings about the display core. The complex mesh of light resolved the same image from every view point, enhancing the wave nature of electro-magnetic energy. Before his eyes the image froze, the live feed diverted into a graphic buffer while his superior addressed his outburst. 
	“Mr. Powers,” the Executive Director of the Psionic Control Agency drawled, “did you have something to wished to share with the board before we continue?”
	Powers realized he had spoken aloud and straightened in his chair to face William Tiernan. Clearing his throat he stated firmly, “Sir—gentlemen,” he amended, considering his audience, “I am aware that the girl was given carte blanche to reveal the facts of the psionic situation in support of her objective to establish the veracity of her capabilities, but I warned you that there should have been limits. It has been common knowledge within our respective institutions that she has had an ax to grind with the establishment since her mother’s death. I expected her to make us out to be the villain of her childhood, but this is simply too much!” He stressed. He gestured to Phoenix’s image before him. “Listen to her! She’s supposed to be easing fears and tensions. What does she do? She announces that she’s ‘one of the most dangerous human beings ever born on Earth’!”
	Tiernan glared at him. “What?” He asked sarcastically. “Do you think that if she doesn’t mention it then perhaps no one will figure that out on their own? Thank you, Mr. Powers, but I don’t care how inflammatory her comments may be, as long as she remains within the realm of truth. The truth cannot hurt us. We do not operate on deniability in this business, the stakes are too high. Your concern is noted, but I’d advise you to hold your judgment until you have seen how she handles the issues she brings up. This is not a stupid little girl here, and frankly I can’t see her bringing up a point that can only alienate her in the end, unless she has an idea how to diffuse it.”
	Powers bowed his head without comment as the Executive Director restored the flow of the interview. In his mind he went over the conversation he had with Dreyfus the night of the disclosure. The original plan had been for her to be employed in demonstrating her abilities, that was vital, but setting her loose certainly had not been a part of that plan. Dreyfus had convinced him that her attitude toward them was deeply hostile. Dreyfus had suggested that even she might not know it herself, but the animosity was there. Dreyfus had chosen the way to alter her perceptions, to bypass that animosity, and he, choking back bile, had finally agreed to it, long into the night. The funny thing was, it was only once she had been told of her freedom, that he had suddenly started believing he was in personal danger from her. As soon as he realized that he could not control her, he had discovered that he was deeply afraid of her. Looking at her bright eyes, he kept thinking that there had to be a way to get her safely back under control. Otherwise, one of them was going to end up dead.

It felt strange to make that admission. By turning the words around it was a subtle cry for help. When she was on her leash she had never really looked at it. The ever present threat, she perceived, had blinded her to the frightening potential of her talents. Even a first order psionic had a lethal weapon at the command of her thoughts and she was a couple of orders of magnitude beyond that. The weakest telekinetic could deliver death to the fragile tissues of the brain and heart. Murder without a trace. It didn’t even take much training to turn the least active into an unstoppable assassin. Her potential did not bear contemplation. If she really tried, she realized, she could murder a star. Put like that, her power was obscene. 
	Of course, she had seen such an obscene use of power, but even that example had shown the true function of celestial power. In a very basic way, psi redefined the world. If a psionic did not compensate for her own actions, then reality could be thrown off balance by its own reactions. A planet could get tipped off its axis in the butterfly’s-wing-to-hurricane chaos of complex systems. A psi habitually exerted a far greater effort in assuring that what she did had no apparent consequences. Not because there were no consequences to the use of psi, but because a responsible psionic fastidiously cleaned up after herself. A far less powerful psi than her could be an unholy monster, if he had no concern for the side effects of his actions. 
	That could not be denied.
	It obviously had not even occured to her to try, she considered with a smirk. The past week of having responsability for herself placed in her own hands left her no choice now but to deal with the fact. She was dangerous. It had to be said. Besides, if she had not put it out there, it would have come out eventually from someone trying to shoot her down. It gave Ms. Brodin a pause, as she checked to see if she had heard Phoenix right, before asking, “Did you say, you are one of the most dangerous people on Earth?”
	Phoenix straightened and looked the reporter in the eye. “Yes,” she replied, her posture somehow assuming a solid sobriety without obvious movement. Phoenix let that hang for a moment and then pressed the point. “Why do you think that the governments of the world spent trillions of dollars maintaining thousands of controlled communities for scores of generations?” She challenged. 
	As she spoke, she directed a glass to the middle of the table between them. “It is probably the most important question we face.” The glass suddenly exploded. The slivers of glass expanded no more than a foot from the center of the table, dancing madly with diverted momentum. Together, their eyes dropped to the spinning shards. Ms. Brodin reached a hand cautiously toward the cloud of debris. A need to touch, to test reality forced her hand along until her fingers encountered resistence. It was a raw force. It repelled her flesh, the way the positive poles of two magnets would abhor making contact. 
	“It is a question of control,” Phoenix continued. The glass shards danced under her direction, gradually sorting themselves out and fitting back together. “Anybody with the wit to predict that the sun will rise tomorrow can see it. The implications,” Phoenix stressed, as the glass reformed. Her thoughts wandered as the sight brought to mind what she had gone through. The shattered pieces aligned under her direction; a delicate collection of slivered shards, resolving the form, but not the unity, of the glass. 
	No matter how well the peices could be fit back together, the wound itself did not heal. Not while the real damage remained. The scar, of bonds ruptured at a fundamental level, prevented it. In absolute terms, the glass could never again be whole the way it was. But with the right kind of pressure, it could be made whole in a whole new way. As the last splinter slid into place, she concentrated. The spider web tracery slowly melted away as she excited electromagnetic bonds, healing and sealing the severed parts. 
	“What is always seen is power. The promise of power,” she emphasized. She reached out and ran her finger down the restored glass. She felt a slight shiver. What is a scar but the memory of the pain? Without it, can identity transcend change? The parts were there, and still the same, but the way they fit together had forever changed. Even as she was absorbed in this personal reflection, she maintained the thread of her dialogue. “So the question becomes, who can be trusted to control this power?” She looked up again at the eyes of her audience.
	“Of course, we’re talking about people here, aren’t we?” She smiled. She shook her head. “We are also talking about perception. It is hard, perceiving of power, to know who can be trusted with it. It is a frightening thing to simply trust the power to the person who possess it. But,” she smiled again, exclaiming, “wouldn’t it ease your soul if you knew that the person who had the power didn’t know she had it!”
	Ms. Brodin gaped at her, before a small smile of understanding appeared. This was the reason Phoenix had gone on about how ignorant she had been of the significance of her awesome talents. “Obviously you know you have it. Do you think that people will be afraid of you? And if so, what can you really do about it?” She had to ask. 
	“Well, I can’t pretend that there’s nothing to worry about. Whatever killed my mother was psionic. It would be stupid to say that I don’t know how dangerous psionic potential can be,” she admitted. “That’s why I am here today; because I understand what a critical issue this is, I feel that I should tell people the truth. Explain what this potential means to our race, and educate them, as I have been educated, to understand it and how to live with it. It is not something we can run away from, because it is coming from within us. If we don’t learn how to deal with it now, it will probably destroy us. There are whole communities that have succeeded at integrating this gift into a healthy society. Communities built on responsibility and integrity. And while artificial means were employed to encourage these people to live up to their standards, there is no reason why the world at large cannot follow in their footsteps making a better world for everyone.
	“I mean, we have a choice,” Phoenix emphasized. “Ready or not, our species is growing up. Because of what is happening out in the rest of the universe, we may just have to grow up a little faster, with a little more effort on everyone’s part.”
	Before Ms. Brodin could ask another question, the food arrived, and small talk reigned as Phoenix concentrated on filling the hole in her gut. Naomi, of course, ate quietly, at Phoenix’s mental prodding. Monica brodin nibbled at her food and considered the young psionic’s agenda between comments. Brodin had been wary of dealing with the power question, and she had been surprised that Phoenix had brought it up so vehemently. She had begun the interview with some reservation about the veracity of the girls psychic abilities. Sipping out of the once-shattered glass, her thoughts raced over what possible tricks could account for the evidence of her senses, including the possibility of someone hacking into her link and uploading a perceptual override into her brain. Of course, once a person started making that kind of supposition the whole prospect of reality became unsteady.
	Then she considered the possability that reality could be altered by a thought. A momentary panic chilled her to the quick as she struggled between doubting the evidence of her senses or doubting the objectivity of her reality. Phoenix had made a point of getting across the idea that Brodin had a reason to be afraid of her, so that she could address that fear. The message she had sent still troubled her. She might as well have said, Go ahead and be afraid, just don’t be stupid about it. 
	Ms. Brodin looked up and saw the look in Phoenix’s eye. Phoenix did not have to say anything. The reporter knew that her panic had been noted, and understood. The girl’s expression betrayed none of the satisfaction or superiority which the reporter would have expected to see in a person who knew that she had proved her point. This one shared the horror she inflicted on the sanity of others. Phoenix nodded so subtly, the reporter almost missed it, and resumed eating.
	Monica Brodin revised her approach as she returned to her questions, “It sounds like a lot of effort went into creating an environment where people like yourself, psionic actives, could grow up indifferent to your power. By itself, that seems to make a lot of sense, but what happens when you learn the truth?”
	Phoenix took a sip of water before responding. “I suppose it would have to be different for different people. From my own experience, the truth came as a shock at the worst possible time in my life. My first reaction was part fear and part sorrow. I don’t know if it really describes the situation, but it was like discovering that the majority of the human race was born deaf and blind and somehow I had been spared. I sort of felt like a freak, because, well, I could see and hear, but my world of sound and vision made it impossible to relate to normal people. I knew I didn’t fit in, and I was afraid of what it would cost me if I had to fit in.”
	“So, in spite of being raised to take your abilities for granted, the thought of not having them was unpleasant. Doesn’t that sort of contradict your claim that you were raised not to see yourself as superior to the rest of humanity?”
	“I don’t see myself as superior. In many ways I envy people like you. It is just that, well, picture it this way. Imagine you grew up in an isolated corner of the world and naturally assumed that the way you were was normal. Then one day you happen to discover that in the rest of the civilized world, if you didnt have your arms hacked off and your eyes poked out at birth you could not fit into society. Not only would you have to deal with the suspicion and distrust that the natural advantage of hands and vision gave you, you would have to face the fact that the only way you could fit in was by horribly maiming yourself,” Phoenix explained, a slight edge of pain in her voice.
	Brodin laughed, “That’s not a very pretty illustration. Not only does it sound horrible for you, but it implies that society practices wholesale mutilation, willfully depriving itself of it’s greatest gifts. I can tell you, no one in their right mind would be willing to cut off their arms and pluck out their eyes. I know if I had been born psionic I sure as hell would not have given it up.” There were nods of agreement from her technicians at the next table.
	Phoenix frowned. Her next comment was hesitant, almost fearful. “I didn’t say that. But, the illustration is still partly accurate. In a cultural context, self-mutilation or social mutilation can and does occur. Without outside inflluences, healthy people are generally not inclined to cripple and maim themselves. But it is unusual for a person to fully develop free of social influences. Maybe its wrong to imply that society has a violently negative impact on people. What does happen is not so obviously inhumane. I mean, the potential for psionics is there in everybody. But society, in its present form doesn’t acknowledge it. It has no place, no encouragement and it atrophies during childhood. I was simply trying to illustrate that, for me—for any active, really—the loss of psionic ability would be violent and crippling.”
	Ms. Brodin tallied her thoughts as she summed up, “I think you are saying a lot more than that. One, you suggest that everybody is psionic, but, two, most of us lose the capability due to social, or perhaps environmental reasons. I should ask you to expand on that, but I’ll hold off, because you made two points that intrigue me. You state that giving up your abilities would be self destructive, yet you also asserted that you envy me, or rather, those of us who don’t have those abilities. How do you explain that?”
	Phoenix chewed her lip while she thought about what she could answer safely. Her face went blank as she considered that she had been told to give people the truth. Dreyfus and company had probably meant only the superficial truth, but suddenly she did not see any reason to protect them. Clearing her throat, she answered, “I grew up unaware of this, but after the disaster I learned a lot of unpleasant things about the system I grew up in. Since the day I was born, I have been used without knowing it. I was a resource the government exploited to make more practical interstellar travel a reality. I can’t think of a single technology that has not exploited psionic actives in its research. You may think, well, big deal, people are always being exploited. Well, let me illustrate some history. 
	“This is the story of the family of one of the first known full spectrum psionics,” she stated, drawing off of memories she had inherited from her mother. “Aeslyn Elizabeth Sinclair, who was born in the last quarter of the twentieth century, had six children. Three of them vanished along with Aeslyn when the reservation system was instituted as a black bag operation at the very end of the twentieth century. Two of her other children were killed during the initial round up. The sixth one was captured thirty years later while trying to escape with fourteen of Aeslyn’s grandchildren. The children were sent to a farm on one of the first reservations, while Alexander, her son, was pressed into service hunting down other actives. He lasted about ten years, but he was killed attempting to rescue his own sons from the farm. He died in Andrew Sinclair’s arms. 
	“The first generation of children raised in the reservation system was the only one with any memory of the outside world. In many ways, they were treated as slaves or prisoners. I suspect that the authorities who were behind the founding of the system did not originally have high motives. I am pretty sure that the lives of those children were spared only because somebody convinced the governments that they were an exploitable resource. That, and their lives ensured the good behavior of the adult actives who had originally cooperated with the cover-up. The children were trained and licensed. Their licenses were sold to research contractors. 
	“Dimensional translations are the most dangerous manipulations a psi can dare. The Interface Systems Project, which has owned my family for only the last two generations, was dedicated to research into psionic methods of manipulating media in higher dimensions. It seems like there has always been a Sinclair involved in field technology research,” she said with a slight sneer. “to the fourteen grandchildren of Aeslyn were born twenty-one children. Like their parents, they were involved in the study of dimensions and how they could be manipulated. Nine of them lived long enough to have kids. My friend’s great-great grandfather, Andrew, only had one son, Amadeus, and three girls before he vanished during an experiment. Andrew’s surviving cousins had about thirty-seven kids between them. Both the farming community they lived in, and the high mortality rate of their generation had something to do with that baby-boom. The Project accounted for about half of them before they were old enough to breed. My friend’s great grandmother, Amber died young, about three weeks after giving birth to her daughter, Alannah. Alannah married her second-cousin, three generations removed, Alexander. There had been almost a hundred kids in Alex and Alannah’s generation. They were two, out of ten who lasted long enough to have children of their own. 
	“Of the seven descendants of Aeslyn Elizabeth Sinclair, born in my mother’s generation, Alexandrea and her cousin Catherine, alone, lasted long enough to have kids. My friend and her cousin caleb. Caleb died twelve years ago. Aunt Catherine—I was sort of adopted into the family—died two years after him, and my own mother after her about six years ago. When I look at just what happened to my mother and myself, I can understand why there is only one living descendant of Aeslyn Sinclair. All of her descendants were gifted psionics, and all of them believed in pushing the envelope. Before each of them died, and even in dying, they contributed something to the research that had led to the development and refinement of point to point translation and interface drives. I was as much a sucker as any of them. It was during the final stage of our most recent development that my friend and I became involved, working on the experimental cores and array elements,” Phoenix finally paused as she realized where she was going. 
	Swallowing she allowed herself to dwell on the events that prefaced her transformation. She set her teeth and got on with it. “The final prototype was installed into the deep space explorer Adventure,” she reviewed, her eyes staring into the middle distance, “and I remember the arguments. Something had to serve for a real time communications link. I wonder what the project directors were thinking—were they thinking?—when they exploited the intimate telepathic rapport of a mother and her eleven year old daughter to fill that requirement. My mother knew that she risked death participating in the field trials, but I was allowed to remain ignorant of the danger to my only family.”
	Phoenix sighed, folding her arms on the table in front of her and dropping her head down to rest on them. When her head came up, her eyes were red and damp. “The project was willing to throw our lives away in exchange for progress, and we let them. My mother, my self, every member of the Sinclair clan born in the past millennium. In one way we were all alike. We were so confident in our ability that we always thought we could succeed.” Phoenix gave a sad smile and summed up her point, “Without that power, would we have been taken away and locked out of the world? Without that power would we have been so happy to challenge death? When I think of what my gift has cost—not just me, but generations of people just like me—yes, I do envy people who never opened that gift within themselves.” The reporter looked at her thoughtfully. Phoenix suddenly brightened and added, “Then I stop feeling sorry for myself, run outside and go flying!” She said as she sailed over the edge of the balcony.

Along with thousands of other subscribers, he watched her hurl herself over the railing. Instead of falling, she seemed to unfold. The grace and control hidden in her smaller movements, the physical composure as her toes stretched down, and her arms and legs swept apart—even the betraying shift of her hips—told him that she was balancing. Her hair seemed to take on life as it spread in a bloody curtain, even her clothes seemed to animate as they were relieved of the constant tug of gravity. It was as if she were submerged in a buoyant medium, swimming under water, except her movements betrayed no resistance such as water would impart. As he watched her dance away, he could see her shifting her weight, finding her footing—not in the air—but within the force that bound it to its mother sphere.
	He pulsed a few equations in a programming sequence to his interface and pale lines imposed themselves on the live feed. They modeled the field distributions, cued by her movements, generating a textured visual that revealed the shape her will imposed on space. He smiled with delight as the transparent image resolved. He could see the manifestation of her will, two ghostly limbs sprouting from her back, and the hot star that seemingly glowed within her abdomen, just below her solar plexus. He adjusted the image and saw that indeed her “wings” were anchored in the light, where her will focused to support her body.
	He sent command again and a window opened to reveal a pair of icons. The graphic images tilted forward in acknowledgment, and a deep, ringing voice-text issued from one of them. “This is the one you wished us to see? The one who addressed the assembly?”
	He smiled, these two net runners had served him well, for a long time. From the days when he had just been a net runner himself. He forwarded his force analysis protocol to each of them, “You have been looking as well as I. What I think you should see is not apparent to the unaided eye.” There was a moment of silence as they analyzed the data. Among programmers, they were sorcerers, obscenely competent in their art, as was he. He knew they would see the significance too.
	The singing, flute voice-text of the other spoke up, “She commands real-code. Your analysis reveals its integrity. This is not a hoax.”
	“No, Ariadne,” he replied with satisfaction, “it is not. I told you I’d found a better hacker than you.” He chuckled. 
	“Is she a hacker?” The deep moaning voice-text of diamond queried.
	“If she’s not a hacker than she’s a divine. What difference does it make, since neither one would share her secrets,” he pointed out. At their separate nodes, they watched as she drifted back to the railing and spoke to the interviewer. 
	“Were there any other questions you wanted to ask?” She seemed to say directly to each of them, in their own points of view. They heard the reporter’s response, her words seemingly issuing from their mouths, asking Phoenix what her plans for the future were. Her head tilted to the side, and she smiled in reply, “Well, I think I told you I wanted to tell the world the truth. I want them to know that I am for real. I already have a number of bookings starting me off on a... Well I guess you’d call it a lecture circuit, or a demonstration tour.”
	Diamond’s voice interrupted, “You were right, geist. Where did you get the tip?”
	He smiled, “I did a little snooping around, right after her first appearance. It seems she didn’t exist in any database, except as a security code reference, until this week. In her announcement, she revealed that she worked as a contractor for ISP. I monitored the company. When Isp liquidated some of its assets into a civilian trust account, I guessed that she’d been cut loose. I watched those funds until they were coded to her new key card. Once I had her gene-print and tracking codes on the civilian nets I was able to monitor her activities. She’s been making her own arrangements for this tour of hers. The rest was simple logic.”
	There was a thoughtful silence as the interview ran on. Finally Diamond spoke up. “So, you’ve brought her to our attention. Now what?”
	He stared at the angel before him for a minute before saying, “Wouldn’t you like to know exactly who and what she is? I was planning to check out her claims. If what she says is true, then there are governments that possess detailed information defining what they choose to call psionics. Maybe I’ll follow her tour for a while. This could be our ticket. If she’s a hacker, we’re going to have to get real close to her to win her over. You game?.”
	“What if she is a divine?” Ariadne challenged.
	“Then we will have to make sure she needs us. But from what I am hearing, she’s going to have to be convinced that she is one, first,” he stated simply. While they thought about it, he continued watching her as she said good-bye to the interviewer and sailed away from the railing one last time. The live feed froze on her spinning back waving a raised hand, with her hair and skirt in a swirl. “Absolutely perfect,” he beamed.


CHAPTER
v

Martin Craig wiped his eyes again as his vision blurred. Leaning back from the glowing monitor, he glanced at the clock. The night had flown by during his absorption, and the faint glow of morning invaded his office. The blue sheen of light painted the reams of paper stacked on every available surface. Reports detailing the lives of seven generations of the Sinclair family. He had pulled many strings to amass this information, and all of it had supported Phoenix’s accusation. Craig had spent an unhealthy amount of time brooding over, and researching Phoenix’s claims, and the effort was catching up with him. 
	He had been with the Project for about ten years, and he knew that accidents had happened, but he was surprised at the body count. It pained him to discover this side of his job. In a small way he could almost empathize with the actives. He had been brought to the reservation during his adolescence, when his immense latent potential had manifested itself in uncontrollable freak events. He had come very close to gaining control of his gifts, but the more control he gained over himself, the more any ability to control psi eluded him. It had been a long time since it had manifested, but the potential still marked him. It showed itself in his astonishing mental capacity. His memory was frighteningly perfect. His mathematical ability was awesome. He could visualize an eight-dimensional continuity, and had written the book on theoretical, non-paradoxical time travel. 
	It had taken him a night to review the lives of several hundred actives, while wrestling the information out of secure data-bases and archive vaults. He could see now that a terrible cost had been paid to achieve the success the Project had finally attained under his direction. If that was the price paid by one family, how much worse could the whole story be? With all of the facts it was not hard to see why Phoenix had become hostile to the project and the system behind it. What he couldn’t figure out, no matter how hard he searched, was how Phoenix knew what she knew. Reason argued that the details had been passed down through that family—an unrestricted source of information—but during her life, there had been only three people who could have passed that kind of information down to her. He had checked and there seemed to be no written account that had been passed down in the Sinclair family. An active was usually erased after death—one of the dirty jobs of the ASIA, collecting all material references to the deceased from the community. The only thing that families were left of their dead were the memories they possessed. As close as he and Ember had been before Phoenix’s birth came between them, he knew Ember well enough to know that she wouldn’t have shared that kind of information with her daughter until she had become old enough to deal with the truth.
	Neither Athenasia Sinclair’s second-cousin nor her mother’s cousin seemed to be likely candidates, given the times of their deaths. If either of them had shared family secrets, or whatever, Asia and Phoenix had not betrayed any sign of it. In fact Phoenix had betrayed no knowledge of her adopted clan’s heritage until that interview. If she did not get that information from her mother before she died—even granting that an eleven year old girl would be able to hide it, especially with the kind of temper and idealism which Phoenix had then—where had she gotten it? When had she gotten it? 
	Asia was the only possible link, and they had been roommates since Phoenix was released from the hospital. It was also possible that the information came through her step-father. Kevin Zhan had altogether too much power, and he was too high up in the Aegis to fall under his rival’s scrutiny. It did not seem likely that he had gotten ahold of the archive records, or the restricted database files. Of course it was not likely that he could have acquired a combat bioroid as a wedding present for Ember when they got married. But he had. He scowled in frustration. Thinking of the man who had married Ember did not improve his thinking. 
	He reminded himself that he was concentrating on Phoenix. He thought back on her long convelescence. He remembered the bitterness, and the anger she had exhibited. From what he had seen, it was plausible that she had known—young as she had been. It might explain her rage, and the defensive reactions to things that penetrated her catatonia. Whatever had been eating at her during that time had been volitile. That much he was sure of. He had felt his own pain at the loss of a woman he had loved more than life itself. Even though she had turned away from him and his jealousy, he had still loved her. The helplessness he had felt at not knowing for a year what had really happened to her—the rage, guilt and grief gnawing at his soul—that was more like what had churned in Phoenix all those years. It didn’t make sense that Phoenix, knowing her mother’s fate, would dwell in rage, while for him, the truth had allowed him to mourn, heal and go on with life. Not unless he considered that her suffering had been compouded.
	Unfortunately he had missed seeing it.
	By the time she had begun to pull out of it, he had become used to her strangeness. He had become used to the impression that she was mad at the world, and raw with unrelieved agony. He had stopped seeing it for what it was. It seemed natural that she would not be herself. Who would not be changed by the trauma of experiencing another persons death? Who would not be hurt and angry at the loss of so many years of life? But was it natural? He had seen at the disclosure that it was not. It was still happening—in her mind. She could not treat it as something that was over and in the past. Maybe he had made excuses, up until that point, which blinded him to the obvious. It was easy to think she blamed him. There had been hostility between them even at the best of times. He had created it. Or it had started with a sense of betrayal when her mother got married, and he had figured out that there was no possible way that she could be his. He had foolishly assumed that Phoenix had been his. It was not Phoenix’s falut, but he had hated the sight of her. His jealousy had turned them into enemies. He had only made it worse by trying to figure out who Phoenix’s father could be, so he could confront her mother, his lover, with his pain.
	But then, there was more to his feelings toward Phoenix than just Kevin Zhan. Something he would not have known if he had not been so jealous. He tapped a security code into his computer. The screen blanked and then the image of two helical structures appeared. In another window, the DNA transcript scrolled by at his fast scan rate. It amazed him that no one else had discovered Ember’s crime and punished her. He clenched his fist, as the new mystery added to the old. He could not understand why she would do it, and he was afraid to pursue the question and discover that his suspicions were right. He might have been able to love Phoenix and he might have been able to work things out with her mother. He could have had a loving family, but his curiosity had damned him, and he had never been able to look at Phoenix without seeing an abomination—the living evidence which would condemn Ember—or now Phoenix—to death.
	His feelings had changed after he got over Ember’s death. Phoenix was all he had left of her, and with a little effort he made sure that Ember’s past would not come back to haunt her. He had striven to reclaim some of what he had allowed himself to throw away. He had tried to make up for the past with Phoenix, and suffered her rebukes. He had watched her grow up into the very image of her mother and struggled with the mixed reactions when he would trick himself into seeing Ember instead of Phoenix. He had been soothed by the way Phoenix would exhibit her mother’s mannerisms, and often indulged in the illusion. He had come to accept his rationalizations for all of the alarming signs he witnessed. But then this had to happen. He looked at the only peice of evidence left on his screens, and he did not know what he was more afraid of—being right, or being wrong.

There were disadvantages to being independant. Phoenix absently brushed a loose strand of hair back behind her ear with her fingertips for the hundredth time as she struggled with details of her schedule. She wondered how the control agents managed it. They had always solved all the problems and organized all of the details that went along with traveling through and working within the world outside of the reservations. An active working an assignment outside never had to worry about travel visas, accommodations, promotional agents, or security. All of a sudden, though, she had to. If she only had herself to plan for, it would have been much simpler. With total responsability for Naomi, the situation became more compllicated. Phoenix could not leave the woman alone for a moment, and did not feel happy with herself for the way Naomi had been exposed to public scrutiny during her interview. Phoenix was a little surprised that Naomi had not been taken away to one of the reservation hospitals as a result. 
	Maybe it had been true, that in the opinion of the Reservation Bureau, Phoenix was the only one who had a chance of pulling Naomi out of her catatonia. It was also true that, whatever good Phoenix could do for her patient, this other obligtation she had assumed created a conflict. Phoenix stared out the window as the sun rose higher. Near-by Naomi sat curled up in an oversized armchair wrestling with her private demons. 
	The interview was supposed to have started Phoenix on her tour. But after Naomi’s collapse, upon returning home, Phoenix had revised her plans. In spite of the way Naomi had seemed to be more functional since meeting Phoenix, her mental and emotional stability was far too erratic. If Phoenix had any intention of helping her get better, she could not afford to have this demonstration tour occupy one minute more of her attention than absolutely necessary, and there had to be someone there to take her place beside Naomi when she was forced to appear in public. So, she really did not have much choice. She picked up the phone and placed a call to the Port Branch of the ASIA. When the call was answered, she identified herself and gave her badge number. Then she asked to be connected to Arthur Remington.
	While she waited, she mused at the oddity of having become one of the enemy, in a manner of speaking. She wondered if her inherited memories were correct on the assumption that, since it had been established, the ASIA had been built on a core of actives. It would be interesting to find out, but at the moment she was the only active control agent that she knew of. Finally Arthur came on.
	“Hi, Arthur,” she began. “Can we speak freely?”
	“Phoenix. It is nice to see you. Of course we can speak freely, but I don’t have a lot of time at the moment. I am still in your area, so why don't I drop in when I am finished here?” he asked with a smile.
	“Whatever is convenient. I would like to ask you for some advice,” she said, pointedly adding, “before I have to get on the road tomorrow.” Arthur nodded and gave her a time and place to meet, before disconnecting. Phoenix stared at the video plate and bit her lip. She could not put her finger on it, but there had been something wrong with that brief exchange. She thought back on the pitifully little she knew about the man, and it came to her. His eyes had been dead. Always before, even while he refused to divulge any information, there had been a warmth and humor in his eyes. With an arched eyebrow, she figured she would have to ask him at dinner, while she tore off the note sheet with the address of the resturant and the time for her to meet him there. 

Arthur looked around the office he had borrowed to receive Phoenix’s call. In the chair across from him, the agent, who had been shadowing him since his assignment to Phoenix had ended, stared at him with cold eyes. In the private vaults of his mind, safe from any telepath, Arthur cursed the luck that had caused Phoenix to contact him while he was in the other man’s presence. Now there was no way to escape from the command. As he had been directed, he had set the trap for Phoenix. Under the eyes of the active control agent, a member of the organization withinn the organization, he had not had a hope of warning Phoenix of the danger. Clearing his throat, he spoke, “Once you subdue her, then what?”
	The other man rose, “That is not my decision. You did a good job earning her trust, now it’s time to make that investment pay off. We have all we need from you at this time. The arrangements will be taken care of by members of the inner circle. And Arthur, try not to forget you are still on probation. This would be a bad time to let your feelings interfere with your training. If you make any attempt to interfere, or if you attempt to warn the target it will not go well with you.”
	Arthur nodded and kept his thoughts to himself as the man slipped out of the office. Arthur only had a moment free of supervision in which to act. Fortunately, the inner circle had no idea how much and how well he had learned his new trade over the years, and in turn, they had predictably underestimated him. He slipped away from the office, projecting an invisibility of thought so intense that it obscured his passage from the thoughts of everyone he encountered. He was just lucky that his plans to help Phoenix had been set in motion a week before. It was also a good thing he had been such a skilled artist in his former life.

Phoenix walked into her bedroom and started to get undressed. The place Arthur had invited her for dinner was very high class. She wondered if she had anything suitable, as she opened her closet. She hoped that Arthur had considered that, when he chose the resturant. He was probably the one who had arranged for her wardrobe, so it stood to reason that she had at least one elegant gown. She frowned, that was yet another detail she had come to take for granted, which had changed. With a  sigh, she found the dress and pulled it out. She had not thought about the matter for most of the day. She always pushed her own doubts and concerns out of her mind while she worked with Naomi. From the beginning, Phoenix had slowly and carefully built up a diagnosis and studied her patient’s mental reflexes and defenses. It would take her a long time to build up enough trust between them for her to risk any kind of overt telepathic therepy, which would be the only way to treat Naomi if she did not manage to rouse herself from her self consumption. It was only as it began to get late  that it had occurred to her that she might not have anything to wear.
	Thanks to Arthur, she would show up looking decent. Phoenix wondered of the men who had brought Naomi had been as thorough. Phoenix stalked across the sitting room to examine the pilot’s closet, fretting about what to do with her patient—whether to get both of them dressed up to go out, or if she should just leave her alone and asleep for a couple of hours—when it struck her.
	Phoenix stopped, head lifting as the charge raced up her spine. The suspicion that something was wrong, which she had felt just after the brief exchange with Arthur, came back to her intensified. She had assumed that she would take Naomi with her. Phoenix turned and re-entered her room, absently unbuttoning her blouse. She did not know why she knew it, but she was certain that if she could not take Naomi with her. She also knew that Arthur had not intended for Phoenix herself to be there when he was giving her the time and place.
	She sat on the edge of the bed and considered it. Precognition was one of the abilities she possessed. But, for good reasons, one which she rarely used, and which she tried to ignore. It took strength and maturity—and a mental stability she did not possess—to prevent the power from destroying the person who tried to grasp it. No other power gave an individual as much control over reality as fully developed precognition. It was too hard to act when one thought she knew what the outcome would be. Just one deliberate glimpse of the future could destroy her future, if she was not strong enough. Even an accidental glimpse could have unbearable consequences, which would plague her whether she acted on what she glimpsed or not. Cursing herself, she stripped out of the rest of her clothes and stalked into the shower. She dared not allow this foreknowledge influence her actions. Unfortunately they already had. She knew, from Martin Craig’s temporal dynamic modeling, that the future had already been altered—shifted onto another course.

He had made a couple of shielded calls before settling down to work. He finally looked up, after several hours engrossed in creative thought. Noting the time, he sagged back, dropping into an old sofa he had found under a sheet in the rented studio. He smiled, thinking that he seemed to do his best work under pressure. He had made an intense effort to study Phoenix, from the specifics of appearance and mannerism, to the habits of dress and her preferred tastes. He would be ready for her, when she walked into the trap.

As Phoenix watched the valet drive off with her car, she checked the corner of her mind still trained on her patient. Naomi was safely asleep. Phoenix could be by her side in an instant, but the thing she was most worried about was what the woman would do if she woke up alone in the suite and tried to go looking for her. Phoenix had to keep reminding herself that Naomi used her abilities instinctively. There was no training to define what she could do, and Phoenix knew that it took high active potential to survive in a void. Without supervision Naomi was extremely dangerous. Phoenix was not entirely comfortable with the risk she was taking, but she had known that she could not bring her patient. Once again, Arthur had let a clue slip, and it’s nature suggested that Phoenix was probably walking into some sort of trap. Since she had no other way to figure out what sort of trap it might be, she had no choice but to stick her head in and hope she could pull it back out before the jaws closed around her neck. Phoenix had no intention of putting her patient into that kind of situation.
	She went in, pausing in the lobby. On one hand, she could see the entrance to the bar, while on the other the resturant opened up. Straight ahead was the front desk of the hotel enclosing the renouned eating establishment. She glanced at her watch. She had come early for a purpose. Approaching the maître d’, Phoenix explained that she was here early for a diner reservation and would be waiting for her dining companion over in the bar. Dressed for elegance, and taking advantage of her height and her mother’s memories, she managed to convey the impression of a much older woman, both to the maître d’ and the propriator of the bar. 
	
Positioning herself to watch for arrivals to the resturant, she ordered a drink. Phoenix knew that a trap set for her would have been set up well in advance. They would have to set up a damper, to negate her talents, and then there would have to be surveillance and covert operatives in the crowd ready to take her down. When she saw Arthur enter the lobby, she was suddenly confused. Had she misread him? Had she just been paranoid? Just as she was about to stand up, and go over to join him, a hand grabbed her arm.

Phoenix tried not to flinch at the unexpected contact on her bare arm. All at once a familiar identity unfolded under her reflexive probe. A boy she had grown up with, a teenage hunk the last time she had ever seen him, she knew Conner Lennox instantly. Turning with surprise to greet her old friend, her mind distracted with wondering what he was doing outside of the reservation, her eyes fell on the owner of the hand. Shock choked off her words of greeting. The young woman, with familiar black hair and peircing, deep blue eyes spoke, “That’s not Arthur.”
	The first words out of her mouth were not subject to thought, “But you’re Conner!” 
	The strangely familiar woman raised an eyebrow, as she quipped, “At the moment, that’s Connie, I guess. How could you tell?”
	Phoenix’s mouth worked, “What the hell happened to you?” Her dismay was evident. The contact between their skin was unbroken, so she still, automatically, perceived the person within. She could not quite deal with it. The boy she had had a crush on her entire childhood, and this strange woman were somehow the same person. Then her first words penetrated Phoenix’s brain. Phoenix shook her head and looked into those dark blue eyes again, “What do you mean that’s not Arthur?” she demanded.
	She frowned at Phoenix and said crisply, “You’re going to find out the hard way if you hang around here. I’ll be happy to explain but not here. We need to get out of here.” Not waiting for Phoenix to agree, she started escorting her out the back way through the bar. As they exited the hotel from a side entrance, his mind—habit twisted the pronoun—flashed her a destination, and they teleported away just as a sphere of psychic darkness engulfed the hotel.

“What the hell is going on?” Phoenix demanded, once they emerged together in the darkness. At a glance she took in their destination. A small park, about a mile from where they had met, stood revealed in the moon light. The rich scent of damp earth, trees and grass surrounded them. The slim, disconcertingly female figure beside her, turned to face Phoenix. Still unable to believe it, Phoenix probed Connor’s body and revealed that the change was more than cosmetic. “What have you done to yourself? And why?!” she added before Connor could answer her first question.
	She heard a sigh, and then a voice as changed as the rest of him responded, “Arthur sent me to get you out of that. When you came into the bar I was so relieved, that made it much easier. I was waiting there because I planned to intercept youu on your way in, only you showed up early. God, if you had gone in—if you had waited for him at the table—this whole thing would have failed.” Phoenix gritted her teeth as he explained without answering. 
	“Connor!” she growled. 
	She smiled. “Phoenix, if you keep calling me that this will never work,” Connor chided. “I am in disguise,” she announced in a mock whisper, holding her finger in front of her lips and looking around suspiciously. Phoenix just stared, fuming. Connor shrugged her shoulders and elaborated, “Don’t act like I’ve turned the world inside out. I couldn’t go out looking like myself, and this was the simplest major change I could make.”
	“But why? Why change at all? What is going on?!” she demanded again.
	Connor turned and walked over to a bench. Reluctantly, Phoenix followed. “I don’t know all of the details. Arthur was assigned to me for about five years. We sort of grew to understand one another. When he contacted me and asked me to do him a favor I said yes. He arranged for me to have a new civilian identity, and told me that you were in danger. I don’t mean just what happened in the hotel, I mean, or he meant, that you are in a dangerously exposed position and he wanted to make sure that there was somebody at your back both you and he could trust. Since I promised to be your body guard, it only made sense pick a disguise that allowed me to literally go anywhere you did.”
	“Connor, that’s not a disguise! You’re a girl! A woman, whatever,” she waved her hands. “I mean, how...?” she swallowed and tried to catch her thoughts, finally accusing, “How could you?!”
	Connor shrugged. “It’s just part of my training. I’ve done it before. You could probably do it, easily enough, you are a full spectrum mind bender,” she said. “I mean, it’s just a body, and I am still me. But, obviously, if I can be a girl, then it stands to reason that if somebody really wanted to, they could be Arthur, or at least his twin.”
	Phoenix caught his—her! she corrected—point. Taking a deep breath, she settled onto the bench beside her and asked, “Connor, why would someone want to suck me in like that? It doesn’t make any sense. I mean, they gave me my freedom. I am doing everything I was asked to do in return. Why would the ASIA try to nab me like that?”
	“I can’t tell you, Phoenix, because I don’t know. My guess is that that wasn’t the ASIA. I think it was something potentially far more dangerous.”
	“What?”
	“Well, I figured out that Arthur was an active a few years ago. I think it has to do with some side effect of exposure to actives, but however it happened, he became what he was supposed to guard against and he managed to hide it. Now, I wonder if he isn’t the only one,” Connor explained. “I understand that they made you an acting control agent,” he pointed out. Phoenix nodded. Connor rubbed a finger over her top lip and pondered aloud, “There are a lot of motivations I can think of. Possibly they wanted to recruit you, since in a way you are one of them, an active control agent. But, I suspect that they really wanted to silence you. Disclosure can not be good for men in their position.”
	Phoenix thought about it a minute before asking, “If this is true, and if Arthur is one of them, why would he send you to rescue me and protect me. And if he’s not really one of them, then why did he set me up to fall into a trap?”
	Connor shrugged. “Maybe what he personally wants or feels, and what he is obligated to do forced him to play both sides. Maybe he knew that the conversation would be monitored and that he would be used to suck you in. I don’t know. All I do know is that he was not the man we saw going into the resturant.”
	“And how do you know that?” 
	“That’s simple. He was already there disguised as you.”

(^_^) 										

The next few weeks were a rude introduction to public life. Phoenix threw herself into the busy schedule she had set up, as a way to keep her mind off of the terrible news that had aired the morning of her departure with Connor and Naomi. A body, matching hers in every detail had appeared in a police morgue, and Phoenix had been dragged down to see it by police baffled to discover her alive and at home when they came to inform her hosts of what they had assumed to be her death. Phoenix offered no explanation, when she was asked. Dreyfus and Powers showed up while she was there. When she was given a moment alone with the body, she performed an autopsy with her special senses. In structure, the body was identical, but on a genetic level the designer’s hand showed itself. To similar to Phoenix to be a sister, to different to be a twin. Arthur had been very good, she realized.
	So had whoever killed her. The body had been altered to apear as though she had been struck unconscious from a blow to the back of the head. Evidence of rape, and strangulation finished the picture. As a calling card, the traces of semen that matched one Arthur Remington. She was familiar enough with the gene pattern of her former body guard. Bordom, around a person who was skilled at not divulging information, accounted for that. At least, from the hidden evidence, Arthur had been essentially brain dead before the worst had happened. Her hands were fisted so tight that the blood to her fingers was cut off. The horror of how a kind, fatherly man had met such a death meshed with the rage and guilt of knowing that it had been meant for her. 
	The turmoil had not been much diminished by the hectic pace of her first two dozen appearances. The premature announcement of her death on the morning news had been retracted in later reports on the news nets. Phoenix and Connor commented to each other on the fact that whoever was responsible had learned then, if they had not already figured it out, that they had killed the wrong red-head. The story remained at the top of the news when it was established that the victim had no registered identity, which only increased the mystery of her death. What Phoenix and Connor knew, they kept to themselves. There was no way to inform the agency that such a monster had infiltrated its ranks without alerting the monster as well. 
	Phoenix took advantage of the constant travel, and exposure in the public eye, to reduce the chances of her being targeted for a second attempt. Connor had advised her to follow the principle of mobility. They paid for their accomodations in cash, and traveled under their own power. The only time she was where anyone could expect her, she was in front of a crowd. Between the original disclosure, the constant exposure, and the desperate measures, Phoenix never had a moment to sort out her thoughts. The whole affair seemed to have burst into a dead run from the word go. 
	Phoenix wondered where the girl who was carefully and painfully kniting her life back together, only a month ago, had gone. She had been replaced with a girl who spent her days plagued by questions about the events that had killed her mother, and the mystery surrounding the murder of her anonomous surrogate, and her nights engrossed in the damage to Naomi’s psyche. It seemed like she could not turn around without confronting some new reminder of her pain, and she never had a chance to deal with it. She did her best to roll with the punches and stay ahead of the game. She could not even remember the last time she had a free moment to simply cry.
	She devoted her time to public relations soothing institutional and individual fears of psionic potential, and diagnosing her patient
	It didn’t take a genius to imagine the potential for evil and mischief present in the real and imagined powers of psi

First month. 
What is psionics, both as a science and as an art?
One hundred and ten years ago a pair of scientists discovered a way to unlock the potential of the human mind. 
According to physics there are many things which are mechanically impossible
That is because physics, as a science, deals solely with structure
Psionics is an entirely different science dealing with architecture
Psionics could be considered a superior science if it were not for that fact that physics can encompass a foundation from which applied psionics can derive

Second month. 
Psionics developed into an applied science which opened the door to two vast and dangerous frontiers—space and mind. 
In almost no time, the crowds she spoke to rivaled the audiences of the most popular rock stars
Word went out and her fame grew
She am sure that some bloody opportunist made a fortune managing her tours
She flew for them, she teleported among them in the crowd and dragged some of them up on stage in the same way
She whispered the name of each person in the crowd in their own ear
She lifted them up out of their seats, tons of people hovering twenty feet in the air without being dropped
She even healed the crippled and cured the ill
She scared the hell out of people and they loved it
She had fans

She didn’t know it, but she had worshippers! She was called a goddess and she was damned as a demon
Forced to prove her power, to justify the desperate demands of a fearful government striving to preserve humanity from an unbearable threat, Phoenix became an object of worship—a goddess by accident. For seven months, Phoenix was unaware of what was happening.
But without a doubt, she was believed

Third month. The knowledge and application of this science had been a carefully controlled government secret throughout the world. 
People believed her. They believed that she was telling them the truth.
No one who felt her touch would disbelieve her if she said that she witnessed the death of her mother at some alien’s hands in the unimaginable depths of space.

Fourth month. The cover-up had been international. The existence of psionics had been advertised to the world only in terms of latent psionic potential. Latent psionics had been disclosed with the publication of the ember-drake unified field theory, but active psionics had been held close to the chest. The publicly avowed purpose of the psionic reservation and research projects, created and administered by international treaty, was to conduct research into the development of active potential in the future. A propaganda cover for the seclusion of active psionics from the world. A purloined letter on a vast, international scale. Active psis were relocated to these reservations as soon as they were identified. Any public display of power was loudly advertised as a manifestation of latent potential, and the poor sod who displayed the power was nabbed and bagged for “research” before he could show off anything else he could do.

Fifth month. In the public mind, psionics was a theoretical science based on discoveries of the latent potential of the human mind. 

Sixth month. The governments of Earth were happy to nurture that illusion, until one too many devastating and fatal encounters in the depths of space. 

Seventh month. Phoenix discovered she had secretly been declared, and was being worshipped as, a goddess. Phoenix was tempted by the adulation for one month, a very long and seductive month. She knew from the beginning that she was doing untold damage with these demonstrations, and it came home hard when she was asked to prove too much. Phoenix forced herself to look at what she was doing and realized that it was not a game, but a dangerous and self destructive fantasy for all.

CHAPTER
vi
Phoenix tries to temper her fame—three months

I was awakened to my full potential violently. I was asleep and I felt someone force their way into my mind. I struggled, instinctively rejecting this penetration of myself. I was overpowered at first and the psychic rape continued. As the probing became unbearably deep something in me snapped, and I lashed out. I stabbed deep into my assailant’s mind and then shoved everything away from me to lick my wounds. Or rather, I apparently shoved myself away from everything and almost died. Without my mother’s training I would have.

I never knew who had raped my mind, although he had exposed himself intimately to the core in doing so. I would have to look deep into peoples’ minds to check them, and it simply wasn’t done. My life returned to normal, going to school, playing with friends, and striving to get involved in the reservation’s research project.

CHAPTER
vii
Phoenix, unable to deal with the spiritual demands made upon her, goes into seclusion—three years, two months


CHAPTER
viii
A friend tracks Phoenix down and makes her aware of the dangerous domestic response to disclosure and a personal threat to her


CHAPTER
ix
Phoenix volunteers for operation exodus


CHAPTER
vIii
Phoenix enters the confidential asset training program, assigned with Connor and Ember—four years, including:

CHAPTER
Ix
Phoenix is one of those attacked personally as the asset program is challenged

CHAPTER
x
As an asset, Phoenix is required to establish intimate attachments to the other assets

CHAPTER
xI
Martin Cannon Craig, an antagonist from her childhood, becomes an asset control officer over Phoenix

CHAPTER
xIi
Attempts to wash Phoenix out of the program begin to plague Phoenix

CHAPTER
xIii
Phoenix is set up for a fall, when she is maneuvered into combination plot to provoke her to kill a latent

CHAPTER
xiv
During a drive trial, an attempt is made to assassinate Phoenix

CHAPTER
xv
Phoenix prevails over these obstacles and graduates, entering interim active duty—two years, including:

CHAPTER
xvi
Inevitably, Phoenix is tracked down and cornered by her worshippers

CHAPTER
xvii
While Phoenix gently tries to argue them out of their conviction, the sting goes down

CHAPTER
xvIii
Phoenix gets caught between the accusations of her enemies and the pleas of her faithful

CHAPTER
xvix
Phoenix refutes the accusations brought against her and closes her heart to the prayers

CHAPTER
xx
As malfunctions continue to delay her ship’s commission, Phoenix begins to confide her troubles in her friends

CHAPTER
xxi
Information about Phoenix’s commission and eventual departure with exodus is leaked to her faithful

CHAPTER
xxii
Anti-psi equipment is slipped under the table to her some of Phoenix’s more Phoenixt worshipers

CHAPTER
xxIii
Phoenix receives a warning to withdraw from exodus

CHAPTER
xxiv
Phoenix is enraged at this last threat and traces it back to a powerful politician—a powerful latent psionic and the hypocritical high priest of the Phoenixist faith

CHAPTER
xxv
The trap is sprung on Phoenix

CHAPTER
xxvi
Phoenix learns that she is to be leashed, and as Arkham’s pet goddess, turned over to her worshippers—the rest of the plan would take care of itself

CHAPTER
xxvii
With nothing more than her body and her wits, Phoenix escapes from the operation and goes after Arkham

CHAPTER
xxviii
You are going to die, and you are going to do it to yourself—Phoenix provokes Arkham to a murderous rage, bringing him within a hair of killing her which allows her mind to overcome the leash and call for help

CHAPTER
xxix
Phoenix pays a last visit to her home to say good-bye to Earth




 
PASSAGES	 OF  BOOK ONE—————————————————————————————

.·. Other things....·. Recruitment
A breeze teased the scent of new rain around the room. Apart from a cozy sphere of illumination cast by an antique lamp on the low table, the house was steeped in shadows. As twilight deepened the afterglow of evening’s passion, I was savoring the last bite of my meal. Setting the bowl down on the table my hand paused. I noticed the strange hesitation—the chopsticks in my fingers hovering at the rim of the bowl—as a sudden thrill darted up my spine to snarl at the nape of my neck. Purely out of habit, I covered up the betraying hesitation by deftly aligning the slender utensils in a chord intersecting ninety degrees of arc along the rim of the bowl. Rising from the cushion, I glided over to the side board and gathered tea settings for two, and fetched the pot from the hot plate. As I was setting the tray down, I heard the front door sliding open and shut. A brief wind cut through the house, peppering me with droplets, and dancing against the paddles and ribbons of the wind-chimes, conjuring a delicate rain of notes to welcome my unannounced visitor.
	“ms. Ember,” he greeted me from the shadows. He slipped out of his jacket and hung it on a hook inside the door. “don’t you think you went a bit out of your way to cut your ties with the project?” He asked as he entered the room, pausing outside the fall of light.
	I shrugged, “I doubt I could ever put a safe distance between me and their meddling.” He had been a friend once, perhaps he understood. I met his eyes, even though they were obscured by shadow. “did it really take this long to track me down or did they hope I might forget it all if they waited long enough before ‘finding’ me?” I asked, rhetorically. When he offered no comment, I slipped away from the table and pulled a hot towel out of the warmer. Stepping back into the pool of light, I continued politely, “please, come in, have a seat. I’m sure you have had a long walk. I have made tea, if you would like.”
	O’Neal sensed the change in my manner and accepted the invitation gracefully. Stepping forward, he accepted the towel from my outstretched hand, savoring the heat on his face and hands. He settled onto a cushion, one leg tucked in, the other stretched under the low table to spare his knees. I folded gracefully into an accustomed kneel and poured for us. He accepted his cup with a quiet thanks, content to absorb another measure of warmth through his hands for the moment. 
	I sipped from my cup, peering at him through a veil of steam. He wore a dress-down uniform, which told me he was now in the navy. From his insignia I discovered he had attained the rank of captain. It would be child’s play to sift his thoughts for the news he brought, but I had been too well trained to dare such a gross invasion of privacy. (that does not apply to surface thoughts, as they tend to invade my mind from all points like a constant bath of light.) Instead I questioned him softly about his walk and the inconvenient timing of the down pour. He smiled, confessing to mixed ire and wonder at the elemental display. “in all probability, this could be the last i’ll enjoy for years to come. I have so much work to do in the belt getting the ships built that I might never feel rain again—on earth, at any rate. Who knows what we’ll find out there. The next time I taste rain on my lips could be at the end of the line, opening new territory to build a home for people who have never and will never know earth. They will be conceived here, but they will not be born until a place has been found and prepared for them.” He gazed into the middle distance after that thought and then folded the towel in his lap with a sigh.
	“which,” he added as his train of thought intersected the matter that had brought him, “only makes me wonder if what I came here to say is really good news or bad.” He looked at me with sudden sobriety. I held his eyes for a moment and then nodded slightly for him to continue. “Phoenix,” he sighed once more, then committed himself. “you have been recalled. You will be notified as early as dawn to report back to the project for your assignment. Those orders are non-discretionary,” he stated. “at the moment, though, you have a choice. The project—well, friends on the faculty—sent me tonight to ask you to come back.” He held my eyes with his as he asked, “will you come back?” He maintained eye contact as he finally took a sip of his tea.
	I took a deep breath, held it for a short count, and then said, “tell them that I will discuss the matter with my mother.” He coughed, almost choking on his tea. That was not a yes or a no. O’Neal understood the answer well enough, and the matter had to have been in his thoughts, but he hadn’t figured out how to address it delicately. My blunt approach caught him off guard. 
	“Phoenix,” he began to protest and dropped it, dabbing at his shirt front with the towel. As he sopped up the puddles on the table, I poured him some more tea. “they’re just people,” he began again, “people make mistakes, and sometimes other people get hurt. Are you ever going to let it go? What do we have to do for you to forgive us?”
	I didn’t know how to answer. I might have wanted some kind of apology for what the project had done to me, but that would require that they understand the childhood they gave me—understand me.
	“Phoenix,” he interrupted my reflection. I flushed slightly, wondering how long a silence had passed. Seeing that he had my attention again, he continued. “I understand how you feel, but that is history now. We really need you now. I need you,” he emphasized. 
	“you need me?” I echoed inquisitively. “what is it exactly you’re asking me to involve myself in? I was never exactly vital to the project. I was competent and I could work well with my mother, who was indispensable. That doesn’t mean i’m qualified to complete her work for the project,” I pointed out. 
	“yes, but that’s not what we want,” he deflected. “I admit the project expended very little effort to keep tabs on you. You needed the time to yourself. Some of the board would have been happy to have lost you altogether. You did not leave a lot of friends behind by the time you left.” I opened my mouth to comment on that and he stared me down. “I am not going to argue whether you had cause for your grief, but your temper burned a lot of innocent people along with the guilty,” he criticized with a level gaze. I bit my lip. I couldn’t argue, my self centered foolishness ranked up there with that of martin craig, the project director who hadn’t a thought to spare on anyone as long as the work proceeded on schedule. O’Neal leaned back and closed his eyes as if in deep contemplation and went on, “what I am here about concerns only the future. In spite of your experience with the field systems and interface drive, you were never considered for a technical position on this project; in any case the research has already been completed and is being developed. In that sense they can get along quite fine without you.”
	“curiouser and curiouser,” I murmured. I rubbed a thoughtful finger over my lips. “you said they want me back; you need me. Why?” I prompted. “give me an answer that makes sense.”
	he smiled and shook his head in apology. “sorry, I thought that it was obvious.” He fished a pack of cigarettes out of his pocket and looked to me for permission. I stood up and led him out onto the garden verandah. He lit the filthy thing and took a couple of deep drags before resuming. “there is a list naming about seven hundred registered psi actives. Classified. Each individual tests above four on the access scale, or over a hundred on the geometric scale. If the government were willing to admit that it was possible, they would all be registered as class three actives,” he explained. He turned to make eye contact. “your name is on that list.”
	I did not say anything. I had learned about the list from my mother—at the moment of truth. She had been on it too. I just waited, quietly calculating the odds that O’Neal would get to the point on his own. This was a man who had spent too much time around telepaths. He was trying to catch me with my hand in the cookie jar. I had to ignore the bait and pretend that I hadn’t noticed the trap either. Latents may have limited abilities to communicate with each other, but their conversations are more efficient at least. To my surprise, he got right to the point. “I have two ‘class three’ actives committed to my staff. I need to have one more assigned to complete the group for my ship. Each ship in operation exodus has been assigned a three man team from actives on that list. Only about two hundred are volunteers, which means that about a third of the assignments are under duress.” He took another deep pull on his cigarette, with a disgusted frown on his face. “try to imagine what you could do if you were on one of those ships against your will,” he suggested.
	“they would never get me on one of those ships if I didn’t want to be there,” I growled.
	he turned a flat look in my direction and said, “if it came to that I wish it were true.”
	all at once I realized what he was really telling me. Why he was really here. “they assigned me to you,” I concluded out loud, putting the pieces he had given me together. “you knew I would not willingly go back to the project. You knew they would somehow manage to force me to accept the assignment. Knowing that, you did not want me on your ship.” I turned an incredulous look on him as he calmly puffed away. “you also knew that if I had any kind of warning at all they might not be able to find me if I got away in time. My god, you’re actually giving me a choice!” I laughed, feeling slightly numb. “you are aren’t you?”
	he returned the slightest of nods.
	I ran my hands through my hair and gazed into the garden rain. I contemplated the details he had slipped me, and weighed them against my grudge. All of a sudden it didn’t matter, I knew what I wanted to do. I turned back to face him. “so, what exactly are my responsibilities, captain?” I asked. 

.·. Fear
One aspect of telepathy occurs naturally in a latent community. Two minds thinking in the same direction occasionally fall into phase. I had felt it that night as he considered voicing his feelings regarding that first step into the unknown. O’neal’s only outward response at the time had been a knowing smile. I had no idea what sort of commitment I had made, and in his own way he knew it. He’d faced the same choice himself. Now that the decision was made I felt as if I had just stepped off the edge of a cliff. I didn’t have to pry to know that he understood that feeling. We shared the thought. O’Neal did not know how to express it, so he sipped his tea and nursed his smoke for a few minutes, and stared past me, into the rain stirred garden. 
	the quiet tenor of his thoughts that evening had touched me and led me to make a mistake a few weeks later when I had caught up with him in oregon. He had left to return to his duties, both for the navy and the project as they strove to make exodus a reality. I had informed the project of my intention to volunteer for exodus barely ahead of receiving the orders he had warned me of. As a volunteer I was granted time to put my affairs in order before returning to the project for briefing and assignment. But I caught up with him soon enough, and eventually we found an afternoon to talk again. Having shared a point of view, I supposed I thought that entitled me to eaves drop a bit. Of course that implies that I gave the matter anything resembling thought.
	in fact I was simply indulging an impulse. Part of the matter was that I was fascinated by latent minds. It is kind of like trying to imagine the colors a blind man sees by touch. An active can easily use his ability to know what a latent feels about his blindness, but doing so ensures that the active cannot honestly understand that feeling. I have never been unable to perceive the universe directly through my mind. I could block out or withdraw my attention from my perceptions, but the thought of not having them gave me the cold shakes. 
	when we met that day, we agreed to quit the confines of the massive research complex which accounted for the livelihood of the families which lived on the reservation. I was delighted, despite some lingering ache, to be able to tramp around my old stomping grounds. The air was clear, and the meadows were lush. We had come to the top of a rise, when he stopped to indulge his vice. That is when I committed my faux pas. At first I just looked and studied what could be seen from my perspective.
	like most people, he had psi potential curled up in an autistic knot within him. The great irony of human existence was that psi potential was not rare at all. That evolutionary leap had gone unnoticed, probably back in the dark ages, because more than ninety-nine percent of those who had detectable potential were so overwhelmed by the input that they recoiled from it. The potential typically atrophied throughout infancy and childhood. I was thinking too loud. He frowned. Actually, psi potential often continues growing even in latents like myself. The problem is that integrating that potential with my adult mind would unhinge or shatter my perception of reality. 
	I pulled back at once. “i’m sorry,” I apologized, slightly horrified with myself, “I didn’t mean to overlap.” He shrugged. Again, a man used to telepaths. He may not be able to initiate telepathic contact but he obviously accepted it—or at least was used to it. He did not get excited about it, he just responded to the stray thought wandering around in his mind. I felt a kind of wonder, remembering what it was that had made us friends before the tragedy. “you just take it in stride, don’t you?” I commented. “did it ever scare you? Did you have to adjust to it or were you always this calm about it?” I suddenly had to ask. I had no way to understand his position.
	he looked at me and answered, “Phoenix, it scares the crap out of me. When it happens, when I think it could be happening, when I wish it would happen—if I think about it at all it terrifies me. If I ever went active it would be the end of me, because I would have no idea where I began or where I ended. I wouldn’t know who I was anymore,” he confessed with a rawness in his voice. 
	I understood that he was afraid. I did not understand his fear. “how do you deal with it?” I asked in a subdued tone. 
	“that is simple,” he said, “I deal with it. Fear is a wonderful thing; it gets your attention and tells you that there is something in your environment you don’t dare take for granted. Fear is only a dangerous thing when you combine it with desire to take everything for granted. A person who fears fear inevitably destroys everything around him trying to eliminate every possible threat before it can present any danger to him.” He pinched out the cigarette he had been smoking and gestured for us to take the path into the woods. When we were out of casual view from the complex, he opened a subject I had never been able to fathom. “why need a man fear a telepath?” He asked. He paused before proceeding to provide an answer, “telepathy takes away too many things from a man, some good and some bad. Telepathy takes away our isolation; it proves to a man that other people have minds and that other people are real. Hence it proves that a man is not just dreaming all of this,” he waved at the forest, indicating reality at large. “it takes away our privacy; it enables two individuals to communicate at a perfect level of understanding, god willing that they both possess compatible views of reality. Hence it implies that a man is not unique.
	“it takes away our sovereignty; it presents the problem that two minds linked in perfect understanding become one mind, which threatens a man’s identity.” He took a couple of steps along the path, and fell silent. I felt a queer sensation, because I could almost understand that fear, although from a different side. Up until the day my mother died, our thoughts had been so intertwined, it had been impossible to figure out where I left off and she began. The greatest part of my bereavement had been the amputation of this wiser part of myself which left me feeling like nothing more than the ghost of my mother. I shook off that line of thought and returned my attention to him. Clearly there was something on his mind. I waited, careful now not to invade his thoughts. When he looked up at me and posed his next question I felt a cold finger trail along my spine. He asked, “would you have fled, if you had not decided to go along with this operation?”
	“why does that question disturb me so much?” I evaded, reading the intensity of his gaze. I forgot my uneasy thoughts of my mother as I considered the implications of his question. “I almost think that you feel it would have been necessary. Why would it matter? Is it something to do with what you said—about how they could coerce me or even force me to comply?”
	O’Neal confirmed that suspicion with the slight shadow that entered his expression. But the words to express a more comprehensive answer came to him with more difficulty. In detail, he described to me certain developments in field-technology and nano-technology, and the politics behind them. In spite of the fact that human survival may ultimately be dependent on the active psi capabilities possessed by a growing percentage of the population, political measures had initiated legislature to bar all but the weakest of actives—active class one and the lower end of active class two ratings—from unimpaired access to the surface of inhabited worlds. 
	in anticipation of the fears—the realization of the true scale of psi capability—that would cause most governments to recognize psi actives as unendurable threats to the safety and security of the entire planet, measures were designed to force actives rated above certain capabilities to voluntary submit to various control programs designed to damp their power down to tolerable levels. The strongest measures promised to flatly outlaw the presence of proscribed actives from the surface of the planet, but even the least aggressive proposals were more strict than the reservation system. Various methods and treatments were being developed to restrict or fully subdue the capacity of actives with proscribed ratings who were present on the surface of the planet. The technology already existed to readily destroy any active who violated the codes taught on reservations, ironically derived from the advances that actives themselves helped develop for the benefit of all mankind.
	among the methods under development was a synaptic lock or neural leash. Developed from augmentation research, a class of nano-viral programs developed for genetic surgery, a neural leash is essentially designed to turn a subject’s own body into a prison. The leash is designed to render an active psionic artificially latent by manipulating synaptic pathways to selectively restrict the processing capacity upon which psi potential depends. In layman’s terms, it disrupts the brain making it harder to think. The leash is not very subtle given the complexity of the brain and lingering deficiencies in psiono-neural medicine. Another project on the list is a damping field. Based on the advances my mother contributed to, it is an interface transmitter keyed to the characteristics of the psionic body-mind interface which exclusively generates destructive interference. The project to which i’d been recalled was deeply involved in developing these toys. Which had a lot to do with why I was actually recalled.
	O’Neal laid it out plainly. “assigning you to the operation exodus is just an excuse. They expect you to fall apart the minute you set foot outside the atmosphere on account of the trauma of your mother’s death,” he explained. “what they want is a test bed for these other projects. Since they expected you to fight the assignment, they expected that they would be free to use ‘whatever means necessary’ to deliver you to your assignment. Any resistance on your part and they could have started in with the big guns—justified by your classified rating—and truss you up tight.” He glowered, “it’s a self fulfilling prophesy. They are going to create the threat they fear by trying to destroy it where it doesn’t even exist.”
	I was furious. I had my thoughts locked down tight and strained to ground out my temper lest it lash out around me in a tempest. Through clenched teeth I cursed, “how do people so afraid of the future end up being the one’s who dictate how the rest of us go forth to meet it?”
	he shrugged. “I really don’t understand it myself. Politics is played in the interests of power not responsibility. Special interest groups,” he pointed out, “have been building their power-bases on growing sentiment against actives. The new conservatives pounced on this simply to stir up anti-psi sentiment to shore up their positions with their voting blocks.” He sneered his opinion of this example of partisan politics, strangled the life out of a group of ferns and then dropped them in a heap with a sigh.
	 “so what do you expect me to do?” I growled. “I can’t fight them without giving them what they want. I can’t submit to it freely either. I’d rather die. Are you saying that I should have run away, or was that even feasible? They would have hunted me down, and eventually they would have me where they wanted me, so running away wouldn’t do me any good either!”
	he was calm again. “you are going to do what you already decided to do. You are a volunteer for a vital and sensitive position in a project with even higher priority. That should rip the rug right out from under them,” he smiled. I drank in the sight of my childhood wonderland, hoping to save it in memory, because I was starting to understand that leaving earth forever was a good idea.

.·. Asset training
On the problems related to getting me united with my assigned group
	“so, Phoenix, your detractors had the matter brought before the board. They proceeded to attack your qualifications, seeking grounds to disqualify you for the naval side of operation. Inevitably they pointed out that you are not a naval officer, and you have no military experience what-so-ever. In light of that reminder, it seems that the board has concluded that your capabilities as a ranking officer is judged to be just as valuable to the mission as your capabilities as an active. On those grounds the delegates called for the board to dismiss your selection for the mission. Naturally,” he related, “the board admitted that it was very concerned with the problem, and thanked the delegates for pointing out their oversight...”
	“what!?” I interrupted in disbelief.
	O’Neal took another breath and continued, “well, considering the limited resource of active talent, the argument was not sufficient grounds for your ejection, but it did point out a deficit in your qualifications. A technicality, especially since it applies to all actives. What it means is that all of you are going to be entered into the academy and other prep programs to cultivate the experience the job will call for. Sorry, Phoenix, my plan to short cut you into active duty was nipped in the bud.”

At first I just stared at the him. I am ashamed to admit that I did not recognize him except for the brief collision in the corridor. Black hair, deep blue eyes, handsome roguish features, he might have been a farmer or a soldier with that lean, work hardened build. I felt that animal attraction again in his presence, “thank you, lieutenant,” the x said dismissing the officer who had announced them. As the group filed in the x urged them to take their seats. I held my breath as the x waved him over to his side. You could have knocked me over with a feather as the x named him and the young woman who had accompanied him. “Phoenix, allow me to introduce connor annan lennox, one of your classmates from the curry reservation in oregon, and ember ellen winter from the essex reservation in new york. Ember, connor, i’d like you to meet Phoenix eve ember, who i’m sure you both recognize.” Connor and I had known each other on the reservation. I guess ten years did make a difference in a man. I struggled to hear the rest of the introductions, smile and shake hands with each of them as they were introduced.
	we all exchanged pleasantries, and the x brought the assembled assets up to date. Shortly he had caught up to where we had been interrupted by their arrival. “...your duties have been formally defined. Your natural assets remain your principle qualifications. Obviously it would not do to leave such assets unemployed. Especially in light of the original project proposal, which is very different in its specifications from what we assumed we would need form you.”
	I quirked an eyebrow and frowned as he paused to regard me. I searched my memory—a part acquired from my mother’s mind—and recalled the early drafts of the explorer proposal calling specifically for the inclusion of psi-active assets. After I scanned the text in my mind, I saw that it did define a very different function from what everyone currently assumed. “of course,” I whispered. “the original proposal was drafted before the destruction of the Adventure. Before the disclosure and the declassification of the ember-drake unified field theory. Outside of the projects psionics had not been considered a technical science. The expeditionary services didn’t know the relationship between psionics and physics, so they included active assets assuming that would they be employed primarily for...” My voice had gotten more excited as I traced this line of thought, but I could not bring myself to utter my conclusion.
	the x smiled.
	“your responsibilities,” he explained at last, “in brief, are to assist in the selection and cataloguing of life bearing worlds—as I understand that even simple organic complexes produce a detectable field to a trained psi,” ember nodded as he looked at her for confirmation. This had not been discovered until active class two technicians arrived to establish research habitats for the survey missions on mars and venus. The technicians had been lured into the discovery of what was still under debate as potential life forms. The x continued, “naturally it is nice to have another angle from which to look for life out in all of that void, but of course, there is that persistent itch. Your primary objective, however high the odds that the case may be, is to identify and initiate contact with intelligent life.”
	I think I held my breath. My mother’s dream, and the cause of her death.
	I don’t think that thought was far from anyone’s mind, with me in the room to remind them of the potential cost of this still sought after goal. The x addressed that point at once, “advanced reconnaissance is the most vital and dangerous part of your duties. We are not alone out there, and we know absolutely nothing about the competition Û except, that they want us to leave them alone.” He explained what solar authority intelligence had come up with in its investigations and reconstructions of the string of tragedies which had all but wiped out the explorers. This was information I had never heard. The terrible truth was that in every instance where an attempt was made to initiate contact—of which many methods had been tried—the ship and the entire complement had been destroyed. In those rare cases where contact had not been possible to attempt or where the crews had flatly refused to attempt it, they had been left alone. Effectively, this alien civilization had endeavored successfully to communicate the only thing it was interested in telling us, without giving us anything at all to go about them. 
	“our intentions,” he returned to the specifics of our briefing, “broadly put, are to make sure that they understand that we will not be intimidated or turned from our objectives in space. Since we can’t talk to them, we have to accomplish this through our actions. So, it going get hairy out there on occasions.
	“if, when we deploy, we come across hostiles Û and trust me, it likely enough to happen—you don’t want to have any questions what the right thing to do is. Most of the conceivable scenarios will be gone over with you in the training you will receive. If you think up a question, in training or at any time in the future, don’t wait for me or your direct superiors to come around before asking. The minute you got doubts, you grab the nearest scut or officer and get it of your chest. Don’t be picky, the deep is no place to be shy or political. Faced with the unknown any and all input is valid, and you want to get as much feedback as you can before you find yourself in that situation, faced with resolving it.
	“your job, simply put, is to be our edge, the wild card in the deck. You are the answer to the questions we don't know how to ask. You represent the best the human race has to throw at the universe. Frankly, I think that three of you per unit is trimming that edge a little thin, but there aren’t enough class three actives to do much better. Three hundred of you is probably more than the gene pool can on earth can spare.”
	having covered the essentials, the x dismissed us into x’s care to receive our briefing for orientation, our watch and class postings, living arrangements and a lecture in military protocol. I guess some of what was already passing between me and connor must have been clear enough to see, because as she dropped us off at our assigned apartment, she returned to lecture mode. “one more thing, people,” x pronounced, “we are going to be a long way from home. We will be depending on you for things we cannot predict now, but it is an established fact that actives who are intimately acquainted work better together. Neither the x, or I am telling you to take any particular actions in light of this fact. Nor do we have any particular interest in what you do with your free time, but I remind you that the academy is no place for unplanned pregnancies. You get a situation started, you take it to medical and get signed up for contraception. You will not like the alternative,” she reminded us soberingly, making direct eye contact with ember and myself.
	i’m pretty sure I was blushing. Ember and x shared a smile and connor just looked innocent.

.·. Beauty
I was unable to see myself through my friend’s eyes, and yet he always insisted on trying to convince me of my beauty and other charms. Connor and I argued over this endlessly—half serious, half in fun. I delighted in his opinions of my sexual appeal, as I cannot deny that I was a sensual person and I took immense satisfaction in giving and receiving pleasure. Sexuality is a quality that involves one intimately and can not be ignored. Beauty, however is very different.

I have no idea what it is like to feel beautiful. I am or the firm opinion that an individual is constitutionally incapable of believing in his or her own beauty. Of course when you are talking about beauty, it is all a matter of opinion. Most cultures—and all individuals—have a bias, to which an individual can be compared and thus accused of being beautiful. It is as psychologically damaging to the individual as any other arbitrary prejudice. An individual can recognize where they stand in light of that prejudice. Ironically individuals who fit the ideal of a given bias are less inclined to buy it. I would hate to be the type who is so desperate to possess this elusive quality that she loses all sense of perspective about it and inevitably destroys herself because no matter how much she wants to believe it, deep down at heart she cannot. 
	
I am not the type to behold beauty in myself. I can see my body as aesthetically pleasing, but I am unable to see myself in the mirror without intimately knowing the person behind that face, my reflection makes me blind to myself and terrifies me. I tried so hard to see what connor saw in me, that I began to wonder if there was any beauty in me at all. I found it, after months of angst, and not in any mirror. It was a discovery not unlike I had made regarding latency. Real beauty is a spiritual—a divine quality that exists in people and which is aroused by the deep penetration of one’s soul. Like all divine qualities, beauty is awesome—wonderful and terrifying—which is why beauty is not in and of itself good or evil. 
	
To understand beauty I found it necessary to understand what it is that pierces a human soul. To experience beauty it is only necessary to be able to understand, because at our deepest depths that is all we are. Focused awareness. Understanding. What we call beautiful is usually an answer—some expression of truth that we can recognize, catching a momentary glimpse of true understanding but which, in its entirety, eludes comprehension. Catching that glimpse is terrifying. It is wonderful. Those little moments of naked awareness are devastating and uplifting. 

The beauty of mathematics is seen only by those who unfold that awesome flower within their minds. The beauty of raw chaos is blasted into the soul on the winds of hurricanes. The beauty of a machine is expressed in the precision with which it is fitted to its tasks. 
	
The human body has a particular beauty. It shares in the beauty of nature, by it’s intricate design and is ideally suited for it’s apparent function—to explore all things. To engage and interact with an infinite number of possibilities and in recognizing their awesome, terrifying and wonderful mysteries, know beauty. It is only through this exposing of our deepest self to the universe that we can truly experience the depth within us and come in time to know ourselves. 
	
I know beauty in myself only by abandoning myself to the passion of my senses and the peace of accepting myself. At times, I almost resent having a body so easy to love, for it is not a given that a mind should possess and be in possession of outward form so resonant with the inner soul. Perhaps being so ill at ease with that blessing explains why it took so long for me to allow myself to appreciate it. Or perhaps I denied myself the embrace of myself for fear of what I stood to lose should I risk life or limb. Maybe that is why most people never find the beauty in themselves; a willful ignorance of what they stand to lose. Or what they have to live for.
	
.·. Telepathy
There is only one way to make a latent mind understand the curse of telepathy. Sit in front of a mirror and stare at yourself until you suddenly get that feeling that you are looking at a stranger. Talk to that stranger and watch that stranger’s face react to your every thought; hear the thoughts as you watch them manifest themselves on his or her face. Notice how much you can understand, how fast and subtle communication—the exchange of thoughts—can be—so rapid as to hardly need formation before they are understood and responded to.
	most people find the exercise profoundly disturbing. In point of fact, most of the active use of psionics is disturbing, if you want to put it mildly. I am not sure how else to explain it, but I have gotten used to it.

.·. Trials
I opened my eyes. Faint light traced the narrow confines of the sleeper-cell with each rhythmic pulse of the message light. Unlike the nerve twisting snarl of the impending alarm, which I had grown to despise over the past few weeks, it aroused me to instant alertness. There were only two calls that would have found me here, and neither was to be ignored. Wrapping the sheet around my torso, I reached up for the flashing key on the touchpad. A glance at the chronometer reminded me to cancel the alarm before accepting the transmission. It would not do to have that electric monster start screaming in the middle of the call. Three staccato taps later, I lay back under the glow of the monitor as the circuit was patched in. I had a moment to wonder who I was going to have to speak to in this ridiculous position before the image resolved itself into the face of a young man—station liaison officer to project staff and sundry.
	“did I call at a bad time?” He asked. 
	“no sir, not at all,” I smiled politely, folded my hands over my midriff, and pretended that there was nothing unusual about carrying on a conversation flat on my back, stark naked save for a distressingly thin sheet and with my hair in a snarl where it had escaped from its braid. “it’s just about time to crawl out of this crypt anyway.”
	he chuckled; he was no doubt familiar with the joys of having “all the comforts of home” stuffed into a measly two cubic meters. 
	“well then, you will no doubt be happy to hear that as of this morning your request has been approved. Your posting has been revised. You can report to the deck officer at your earliest convenience today,” he smiled at my look of relief. 
	it had been a gamble, but it had paid off. 
	in spite of the fact that I had returned amicably to the project, they had been surprised by my compliance and suspicious of my avowed interest. O’Neal was right. I had made more than a few enemies in the project. O’Neal was also right when he said they needed me. I suspect that they would have rather forced me, leashed me with a neural lock and sleepers, and sent me on to their military overlords properly tamed and broken. Lacking that option, the best they could do was throw annoying delays into my path. Recommending military academy training appropriate to my assignment’s equivalent rank—of course the military was predisposed toward that one—and psi aptitude testing and re-training, because I had been away from the project for about a decade. I had spent my initial months avoiding these hurdles, placing my bets on the orientation tour O’Neal had scheduled for the actives assigned to him. Reasonable objections grew gradually smaller, but barring me from the field trials of the colony-explorer prototype on the grounds of past trauma was the final straw.
	I had contacted O’Neal and informed him. He had returned to the belt where he provided input for the construction of the prototype seed ship barely a month after our conversation in the woods. After I explained the way my project supervisors were trying to block my transfer to space, he countered by issuing verbal orders to report to him at arcology iv. Just show up. It would be better arguing with them after the fact, he had said. Just show up. Break out of the reservation, book interplanetary passage to a corporate-military belt station and pray I don’t get arrested—that’s what he was really saying. Still, I had made it this far. It was up to him to clean up the mess when it was over.
	“I have to say, it was not easy to get you cleared onto the ship,” the lieutenant had continued. “as per your request we did get confirmation from captain o’neal, but there were problems confirming your activation and assignment with your project supervisors.” I did not cringe. I knew that they would attempt to contact craig or malthus in oregon, to assure themselves that I was here with the project’s blessings. On the naval side of the operation, I was the captain’s responsibility, and could take direct orders from him. At home, however, by stalling my fitness evaluations, the project was clouding the issue of whether those orders applied to me in particular. I could just as soon have received a call from my supervisors recalling me home. “however,” he added, “in light of the expense involved in requiring you to wait, on the chance of negative confirmation coming through channels—whether you remained here or returned home—your assignment was approved on a probationary basis. Systems experts and advisors from earth will be arriving this morning via solar authority in-system cutter. According to the manifest, there is a project director aboard. He will be notified of your status upon arrival at the station. If there any questions, he will have the authority to resolve them at that time. I’m sorry it took until the last minute, but you got your slot. Congratulations,” he beamed.
	“thank you lieutenant mitchell,” I smiled. Over the last few days I had been growing more and more worried that the gamble would not pay off. It had taken almost all of the credit I could scrape together to just to get passage to arcology iv station; what little survived that two month journey had barely been enough to pay rent on the sleeper and file my request for operational status adjustment. That is, I had to grease the wheels of military bureaucracy to get looped in the proper hole, while mitchell tried to think up a way to get me on that ship. Fortunately, the transient accommodations included a meal once a day, otherwise I would have starved by now.
	“no problem, ms. Ember. You already have the packet captain O’Neal forwarded to you for this mission. That will tell you where to go to get checked in and what the orientation schedule will be,” I nodded, noting the wandering of his eyes. Lieutenant mitchell cleared his throat and went on, “you have a busy week ahead of you. When you get yourself settled in please call my office and see if you can get an appointment to see me before monday. If we don’t get together by then, you’re going to be on your own to figure things out for a few weeks.” His expression became mock serious as he added, “I promise you, that won’t be fun.”
	I raised an eyebrow. I didn’t have to read him mind to know that he was hoping for a reward for his special efforts on my behalf. But how should I read the subtext? Pay soon. I’ll arrange cover for our activity. Don’t put me off, or squeeze out of it, or i’ll make you regret it. I promise you, that won’t be fun. I suppose he could be half joking, but he was definitely serious. I ran my hand over the sheet, and smiled, “I suspect i’ll be busy from the time I report aboard to the time we undock. I can’t guarantee anything but if I can find time, and I find that I need your advice, i’ll drop by in person to schedule an appointment.” 
	subtext: don’t be pushy. I’ll think about it, but I want to meet you in person before I meet you anywhere in private. He nodded and smiled a half smile, “I understand. I hope to hear from you then.”
	I signed off, and sighed deeply as the interior illumination dropped to phosphor afterglow. So far so good. For a while it had looked as if my hopes were in vain. Of course, until I checked in, there was still a chance that the other call would catch up with me. 
	that thought was sufficient motivation to brave the chill of the corridor. I released the catch and slithered out through the access at the foot of my compartment. The hexagonal arrangement of the cells was predictably disturbing, but familiar to anyone who had worked in the space program. As was the necessity of having to dress and undress out in the corridor. I slipped into a kimono, provided by the station to transients who would otherwise end up stalking naked between sleepers and the facilities at all hours of the day and night. After checking the lock, I turned from the access and followed the corridor to the locker room. My path led me out of the dark confines of the sleeper block out onto an upper level balcony of the terraced atrium that was the real attraction of this station.
	I stopped to soak in the view, combing out my braid with my fingers as I leaned over the railing to peer into the artificial chasm. Even this early, swarms of bodies were negotiating the layers and tunnels of this man made hive. After scanning the familiar features of fountains, waterfalls, gardens, arbors, and sculptures, I turned away from the railing and continued. As always, there were a handful of tourists who stared at me as I negotiated the lightly crowded corridors. To say that I am easy to recognize, is perhaps an understatement. By way of my mother and my alleged father, I am one quarter japanese, a quarter irish and half scots. Somehow my genes had combined to produce hair the precise color of freshly spilled blood. That memorable, distinctive feature had been boldly advertised in the media. On average it took only a puzzled moment for people to place where they had seen it before.
	as time had passed, recognition had gotten slower. I could now walk through a crowd or a public place without being accosted. I could actually linger in a place for a while before someone would approach with their questions and comments. It was not fame. It was more like the way people stare at animals in a zoo. Except people don't ask the animals in the zoo to show them how you do it, whatever “it” they’ve gotten lodged in their minds. As if I were some strange creature from another planet. These people burned my ancestors at the stake. I never let that fact slip my mind, no matter how sane and open minded they seemed.
	anonymity is the most valuable possession an active psi has.
	my wandering course brought me back through the sleeper-blocks to the locker room. I found my locker and slipped out of the kimono, hanging it inside. I stopped by the service window and picked up a towel as I entered the showers. One of the blessings of field technology was artificial gravity, achieved by four dimensional geometrical architecture. A static field that so far proved to permanently mold the shape of space. It had been astonishing to discover that relationship between forces and four-dimensional geometry, but man had exploited it lavishly in the construction of ships and stations where one could take an honest to god shower, among other benefits. It also spared spacers from the distortion of reflexes and instincts caused by angular momentum in the earlier stations, which had to rely on centripetal force to adhere things to the deck. 
	if only they had provided the transient accommodations with baths! Still, I entered a stream of steaming water and luxuriated in the heat. I was not alone. There were other men and women tending to the proper care and maintenance of their bodies. No one even turned their head at my arrival. Heinlein had been on the mark in his estimations of space culture. Skin was a practical form of dress in a controlled environment where survival depended on one’s ability to skinny into a pressure suit at the drop of a hat. Clothes had evolved for the environment which were barely more than a second skin, or otherwise could be removed and disposed of in less time than it took to blurt out one’s favorite expletive. Sexual predators which might have exploited the vulnerability of naked women and children did not survive long.
	at first it is not obvious, but I discovered that while there were indeed some people who moved about totally naked—indecently exposed and thus vulnerable to the eye—one mostly saw people who went about nude. Dressed in an unselfconscious attitude. I initially found it as natural as breathing to be at ease in the unadorned flesh. Perversely, I gradually became more conscious of my body than I had been since puberty. I found myself on the edge of arousal and sensually aware of my environment at this liberation from inhibitions I had not been aware I possessed. I did not feel outwardly vulnerable, but there was an inward vulnerability, a desire to touch and be touched. In spite of myself I broadcast an aura of sexuality about on par with a woman dressed to kill. Socially dressed, but certainly not modest. 
	worst—or perhaps best—of all, however this shift in my self awareness had come about, my aroused state stayed with me even when I was clothed. What had happened to me? Simply, I had suddenly, for the first time in my life, really perceived myself as a sexual being and this shift in perspective had altered every nuance and gesture of body. In passing this is not the most important thing that ever happened to me, but as a psi I realized that suddenly falling in love with my body might one day save my sanity. It is a pity that I did not have the luxury to explore this new facet of my being in any depth until much later. Until the fascination wore off, I would stop at times and look at myself—not narcissistically, but with wonder at the complexity and elegance of a machine that beggars the aspirations of art. 
	I shook myself out of my reverie and went to my locker. I pulled out and squirmed into my uniform. If I were spending another day of waiting I would have pulled out the body sleeve, but instead it was the full body sheathe. These two items of clothes constituted my permanent wardrobe. Both were the product of one of the research projects. Nanotechnology had been quickly achieved with the influence of psionics; manipulating matter is one of the four cornerstones of psi ability, and for some of us as easy to accomplish as breathing. These garments, lightweight, elastic, and virtually indestructible, had been constructed on a molecular level, and were in fact extremely sophisticated machines in their own right. 
	given the potential of nanotechnology, it was feasible to design an emergency environmental suit capable of sustaining a body in hard vacuum, tough enough to resist micro-meteorite impacts in open space, and economical enough to be worn constantly without detriment to the skin. It is responsive and elastic, to provide total freedom of movement, and a full contact pressure of ten to fifteen pounds per square inch in a vacuum. A carbon based filament structure laced the fabric in a dense weave of staged, interlocking and overlapping spheres that absorbs high level kinetic energy, transmitting it over the total facing area of the body within; and which makes it exceptionally resistant to cutting or tearing. An active matrix absorbed raw chemical elements from the waste products of the body, catalytically breaking them down into neutral substances, purified water and oxygen, and materials to repair and maintain itself. It was so close to living that some people were superstitious about wearing them. Hardly surprising that it could literally be a second skin, an artificial organ specialized to complement the chemistry of the far more fragile organ within it, accommodating it at a molecular level.
	of course while covering everything but the face—from the tips of my fingers and toes, to the top of my throat—when molded to a body’s contour it hides nothing what-so-ever. A fact not designed to comfort self-conscious males or females. It is a true body glove, a single piece of material with only one opening, not counting the neck. One slips in through the back, legs first taking care to properly manage the suit’s two necessary invasions of the body. Once secure about the waist, one then slowly and gently threads in one’s arms, then head. As one’s head emerges properly through the neck, the seam is drawn tightly closed across the tops of one’s shoulder blades. The material seals to itself like glue-—some kind of electrostatic attraction—and getting out of it again can be athletically challenging. A coif and helmet complete the sealed environment of the suit. 
	my body sleeve is made from the same material. While being useless for exposure to a vacuum, it had the distinct advantages of being durable, self cleaning, and immune to bullets and knives. I am not too proud to have my life saved by my underwear. 
	there is a snug jacket worn over the sheathe, made of a light material, that I threw on to complete the uniform. Dressed, I transferred the rest of my belongings into a duffel bag. I put my hair in a braid before quitting the locker room. Keeping my hair was a risk. Getting it, and my head into a helmet and properly sealed in a hurry would be difficult, I knew. Still I didn’t have the heart to cut it, and I knew there were other men and women who felt the same way. The system tolerated that weakness, and no one would shed a tear for a fool who died for the sake of their hair. Of course, i’m not to proud to have my life saved by a hair cut either, but the way I looked at it, I didn’t need scissors to cut it if I had to, so why not keep it until there was no choice?
	I reached the docks in good time, and picked up my revised orders from the deck officer. I noted the berth, boarding time and my posting. Foul words followed. The cutter had docked while I was in the shower. The liaison officer had contacted the director as promised, and it had turned out to be craig. He had not challenged the probationary assignment, and he had not blessed the assignment either. He had simply announced that he was acting as my chaperone and requested that my revised orders reflect my subordinate status. 
	in spite of the urge to burn the papers, I tucked my orders into my pocket.
	seeing the time I had to wait, I made my way up to the observation deck and watched for the arrival of the seed ship prototype, gabriel. She was stripped down to the vital systems. No armaments or armor, no crew or cargo accommodations beyond the needs of bridge and engineering. A skeleton ship with a skeleton crew. If she passed muster she would go on to earth for outfitting. As she was, she looked like a sleek and hungry predator, the way her ribs were showing. After a bit I realized that I had lost track of the time. Reluctantly, I stepped back a pace. The waiting had come down to minutes. There was still some distance to cover on my part before it could be over. I reflexively tugged on the tapered waist of my duty jacket, hoping my appearance was in order. I stepped over to retrieve my duffel, checked my inside pocket to be sure my orders were still there, and headed down to the boarding gate.
	there were already half a dozen boarders waiting in the receiving area off to the side of the sealed access when I arrived. One of them looked up as I dumped my bag on the pile the others had made. It was martin craig. As the man who had headed the interface drive project, he was the senior observer from the project for the engineering trials. Craig and his staff were here to rate the new design before advising on further construction. As part of the team which had developed the interface drive, I was on the list of qualified advisors, but my project superiors had not been willing to support me in that capacity. As O’Neal had said, my experience with the systems was of little or no interest to the powers that be—civilian or military. I had pointed out that as an active my experience was based on direct perception of the forces the drive manipulated, and advised him to take my assessments seriously. O’neal, of course, was tied to the project also, which explained why he was picked for this command. Unlike my captain, craig had done just about everything in his power to prevent my being here this morning. “ember,” he greeted me with a nod, “nice of you to join us.” Between us, it was a slap. I turned and stared at him incredulously for a moment before shaking my head and walking away.
	“what?” He called after me.
	I almost turned back to explain, when my stomach decided to remind me of its existence. Should’ve taken care of that, I thought. I glanced up at the docking display to get an idea how long I had to kill before the ship access was secure for boarding. Time enough, I guessed. I crossed the reception area and headed across the bare deck plate toward a vending machine. I ordered a breakfast roll and flask of hot tea. My stomach had not settled enough to eat yet, but the reality was sinking in and I didn’t want to faint when I reported in to the captain. I stood and surveyed the activity on the docks while my thoughts ran off in other directions.
	in typical military fashion, the order of the day seemed to be hurry up and wait. I wandered astray a bit and perched on a railing while I chewed my way through breakfast. The food seemed to help. I hadn’t been aware how tense I was until it started to ease off. Boarding nerves. Naturally, just as I was finally relaxed, I looked up at the docking display to discover that the status lights had somehow skipped to green across the board. I stuffed the end of the roll in my mouth and hopped to my feet. Thankfully, I didn’t choke on the last of my tea while running back to the group—which had grown to a full dozen in my absence.
	I silently cursed myself as the seals popped and the gate split open. There wasn’t enough time to fall in. Sure enough, bodies began pouring out of the gangway as I tried to close the distance. I lost a precious few seconds disposing of my trash at the waste receptacle on the edge of the boarding area. I felt eyes on me as I slipped into formation and came to attention. Some of the bodies came past in front of me to collect our duffels off the pile and began to carry them aboard. One remained, and I had little doubt who that would have to be. The one who had held a fixed stare on me since I had dashed pell-mell across the dock. She did not say anything, though, just turned and paced down the line behind us.
	“good morning gentlemen. This is a shakedown mission and hopefully it will be short and sweet. You are all skilled technicians and brilliant scientists, but I must point out to you that this is a military operation.” She came around the end of the line and paced in front of us, “I am your xo, commander angelica lynn thompson. For the next few weeks I will be the right hand of god as far as you are concerned. Some of you,” and at this, she looked directly at me, “have already picked up some ship experience before arriving here at arcology iv. I’m sorry to say you’ve still got a lot to learn in a short space of time.” She stopped in front of the line and paused, “if you’ve all got your papers, you know who you need to report to. Your section leaders have already been informed of your assignments. As soon as they have released you to general access, you should report to the quartermaster for your bunking arrangements. If you have or develop any preferences for bunkmates you can apply at any time for reaccommodation.”
	as the group pulled out their orders, thompson smiled wryly and added, “this is a prototype construction, so I regret to say that she’s a little short on amenities. I assure you that if she works the way she is supposed to, the ships following her design will be an order of magnitude more comfortable. For now, however, we will make do.” One by one, she took each person’s papers and checked them. Everything was in order, so she wrapped it up. “very good, gentlemen. I have, of course, already reviewed your jackets, and I just want to say I have every confidence in your abilities. Some of you should expect to be summoned to the captain’s mess this evening at which time you will meet the captain. Carry on.
	“ember,” she added, holding out an arm to block my way, “you’re with me.” Craig and a few others looked back at this and then discreetly followed the rest up the gangway. I raised an eyebrow when we were alone on the dock. Thompson smiled and pointed out, “you’ve got orders to report to the captain. Don’t want you getting lost on the way.” The papers in my hand, which we both had seen, had placed me in craig’s party under his discretion. The xo was reminding me that I had come on the personal order of the captain. 
	I was starting to feel like a bone with two dogs. 
	“thanks,” I said wryly, following her up through the ship’s access. At the top of the gangway, I turned to the chief petty officer, “active ember, Phoenix eve, reporting. Permission to come aboard?”
	the cpo glanced at me, opening his mouth to respond, and froze. He scanned down my body and then back to my face. After a quick glance at thompson, he reclaimed his voice. “permission granted.” His eyes snapped back to thompson, “this some kind of joke, xo?” 
	“mind your manners mr. Grant,” she countered taking my arm guiding me past. Aside, she murmured, “ms. Ember, please disregard that remark.” She pushed me into the cross corridor ahead of her and turned a sharp eye on grant. I stood there in confusion. Grant was looking between the us with much the same expression. Thompson waved me on with, “go on, i’ll catch up with you at the lift.” I hesitated for a second, not sure what was going on. Turning on my heel, I headed alone down the corridor. It was not as if I could get lost. I had memorized the layout of the ship before departing from the project, and the reservation.
	I heard the xo talking quietly to grant behind me as I moved further away. I made a note to look up cpo grant later and find out what that had been about. It was possible that it was the usual annoyance, but it seemed almost as if he had been looking at a ghost. He had gone pale and gotten flustered; a very personal sort of reaction. 

	—————————————————————	
	angelica thompson caught up with me and delivered me to the captain. O’Neal invited me to take a chair and asked thompson to collect the other members of my group so he could make the introductions. I made myself comfortable, enjoying the view out his stateroom window. It is one of those things about the space age, one only rarely gets to see space. While we waited he asked me to share the details of my trip. He was amused by my simple and direct solution to the problems of getting off the reservation, and acquiring transportation as far as low earth orbit. I found a nice remote corner of the reservation and I flew, under my own power, up to the luna v transfer station. He listened to the measures I had to take in order to adapt to make this little trek, and I confessed that I would never have thought to try it if it had not been for the fact that my mother had once gone to the moon and back the same way on a bet. Of course for a trained active class three psi, it is no more dangerous than hiking through a desert. 
	O’Neal shook his head, saying wryly, “and I wonder what it is about actives that scares the generals and politicians.” We had had many conversations about the antipathy of politicians toward actives, but this was the first time I had heard him add in the military.
	“so, now the military is having doubts, eh?” I asked.
	“well, no. But not for lack of paranoid pressure from the civilian establishment,” he answered. “your name came up again. Some of your friends in oregon have assembled a profile on you trying to build a case for their belief that you are a reactor pile a few rods short of critical mass. There was some noise about having you ejected from the operational side of exodus. Of course there are objections to allowing any of the selected actives to remain of the program,” he complained. “naturally, these objections are overruled, but some of the allegations they are making do worry some of the brass higher up.”
	“you mean the allegations that, without some form of neural leash or synaptic lock to prevent us from ‘exercising our abilities with authority’, the authority of captain is dangerously undermined?” I corrected, scowling. “whoever thought up these ‘mind-control’ fantasies obviously had no psi capability what-so-ever.”
	he leaned back and crossed his arms. “and, naturally, having no capability, they are not particularly inclined to take your, or any other telepath’s word for it that psychic domination is impractical to the point of ridiculousness.”
	I sighed softly and gazed out into the depths beyond the portal. He watched me as I combed my fingers over my hair, tucking loose wisps behind my ear. “there are easier ways to make people do what you want,” I murmured, “and most of them don’t call for exposing the deepest and most intimate precincts of your soul.” I felt his eyes studying me as I reflected on the hard lessons I had learned as a child, before my abilities had been harnessed by discipline. “the problem with these people,” I went on, pushing those thoughts aside, “is they have no real concept of intimacy. Sure, I could take everyone over, and if I were real clever about it, I could seize control of the ship, but not without letting every person on the ship know things about me I wouldn’t tell my own mother. It’s just...” I didn’t have words to describe it. Even as close as my mother and I were, there were things we could hide from each other, but to control another’s mind you had to trap them in the depths of your self. Deeper than the most sexual intimacy. I had tried it once. It was, “...unbelievably indecent!” I finally gasped.
	“as I said,” he began, cutting off that line of thought. “the objections were overruled. They just don’t stand up to scrutiny.” He shrugged and smiled, “the matter against you, however, did end up going before the board for review. It is bad enough that they are being so open about trying to get you under their control, but if they succeed, they will have a precedent to drag all of you into their scheme. They are attacking the qualifications of all the actives recruited for exodus by these allegations that, in spite of your superior reputation and a record of unquestionable conduct, your capabilities as a full spectrum psionic make you a certifiable threat to the safety and welfare of your ship and her complement.”
	“so what was the board’s response?” I asked while he laughed softly at the expression on my face. He took a deep breath to calm himself and ran his hands through his hair. When he started chuckling again, I snarled, “well? What did they say?”
	I didn’t get an answer, as thompson had shown up with the two other class three actives of my group.
	—————————————————————	
	
	 
Chapter three
	
	
	
Exodus	the purpose of exodus was to carry mankind out to the stars. Spread humanity out over as many planets as possible before whatever was out there took a notion to corner us at home. It was an insurance policy for the human race—paid for in human embryos and the fruits of ten years’ worth of system wide industry, among other mean necessities. It was in many ways the worst example of a colony effort that earth could mount. As fast as technology was exploding, it would be decades before anyone could propose a basic terraforming program. We simply did not have the means to take earth with us in all her genetic diversity, and recreate our home from scratch. The best we could do was take a specially tailored catalogue of embryonic plant and animal stock to support and complement our cargoes of unborn people, and do our damnedest to find the most terra-compatible worlds we could. That was all there was to it, we were only concerned with slipping our eggs into some other baskets.
	if fortune smiled on earth, then maybe in another hundred years a real, practical colonization effort could be mounted. The emergency colonies could be revisited and the deficits in their environments could be addressed. Exodus placed its faith in that trait of humanity which had allowed us to adapt to virtually every ecological niche in our world. We baldly hoped that there would be at least one small corner on these unknown, undiscovered worlds where man could hang on. We had no reason to assume that the invasion or obliteration of earth was likely to happen, but we knew it was possible. By unanimous vote, the united nations and the solar authority agreed to spare no expense and waste no time investing in the survival of humanity through operation exodus. The emergency colonization plan called for at least one hundred ships, each commissioned to carry a cargo of one million human, and twenty million domestic stock animals—from cattle, horses, camels, goats, sheep and chickens to cats and dogs and bunny rabbits—as embryos in cryogenic suspension, several million tones of catalogued seed stock, in addition to various stores and sundry needs pertaining to the needs of a crew of about five hundred mixed civilian and military volunteers per ship. 
	in spite of the sense of unrelenting pressure felt by all involved in the ground work for this massive operation, exodus could not depart soon enough. At the time I was brought into the game, there were years yet to go before we would be ready to embark on our mission, and that was still moving too dangerously fast given the state of our working technology and a constant flow of new technological developments. Like with the prototype, gabriel, designs kept going back to the drawing board over and over again. The training programs and forced enrollment in the new astronautical naval academies, originally thrown in our way to hobble us, ended up being the things that picked up actives like myself and kept us focused and committed to our goal. Political agendas continued to plague selected efforts and notable individuals, but the solar authority began assigning priorities to the endeavor and the agendas of back biting, prejudiced, panic mongers did not come out high on that list.
	connor, ember and I departed immediately after the prototype trials for trinity military academy reservation—formerly vancouver island, purchased by the solar authority in twenty-one twelve. The mission specs for exodus called for class three actives to occupy staff positions, which meant we had to attain a lieutenant’s rank and grade. We were in the military, and we served several tours of duty in the course of earning those qualifications. On arriving at trinity, we were assembled in our groups; living, working, studying, relaxing and playing together. Groups that did not work well and play well together over time were broken up and reassigned. Our group seemed to have the right chemistry. Connor and I had our past acquaintance and common experiences on the same reservation. Ember was new to both of us. Friendly, vivacious and serene, she was a born peace maker and an adventurous soul. Ember was my best friend and surrogate mother almost from the day we met. Connor and I... Well, there had always been a mutual attraction, but we both had highland tempers. Six years—more or less—passed quickly and suddenly we found ourselves caught up in the rush of mission prep.
	—————————————————————	
Departure	in may, circa 2117 ad, the last of the seed ships reached final commission. The first two waves of operation exodus had already departed, each proceeding the other by a month. We were in our final days of mission prep when the word went round that the last ship had passed her fitness trials, and that the remaining three month schedule of departures seemed to be on track. O’Neal retained command of gabriel, on account of nursing her through about seven design generations. Between her field architecture and active matrix composition, she wore through her overhauls admirably, but she was the quirkiest ship in her class. Somewhere in her evolution she had acquired a personality and she had flatly refused to have anything to do with the ships in the first and second waves. 
	call it animism if you will, but anything with as much processing capability as gabriel really ought to be sentient. The fact remains that she had broken down more reliably than she had functioned during pre-launch for both the first and second wave departures. We all but pulled her apart and scattered the pieces without finding one legitimate cause for the malfunctions. Aside from some truly frightening misadventures with life support, the trouble often came down to the field arrays and the interface drive core, which means that connor, ember and I spent a lot of time in the drive core annex dredging her artificial mind—that’s the only way I can describe an architecture of field engineering; a mind is the only thing I have experienced to compare it to. Considering what the vital systems of an interface drive were modeled after, I suppose we should have seriously considered the possibility that, while the darned thing might not develop an opinion, it could very well have an attitude! 
	with only days to go on our present schedule, I spent most of my time stepped up. Wait, perhaps I should explain that. Psionic ability has a state dependent nature. Attention has different energy levels, layered like electron shells, which correspond to given states of awareness. Shifting from an inner shell to an outer shell occurs as a perspective shift. This shift in attention involves attaining an excited state of awareness, and requires a greater investment of energy to maintain. It feels like waking up. In that state of higher alertness and broader perception the mind interacts more cleanly with interface and more efficiently upon it. The trick is to engage the mind at that level, or the impetus dissipates and one drops back to sleep. It is the matter of being engaged which accounts for the fact that at most times I operate on a class one threshold.
	in the course of mission prep and pre-launch countdown, I engaged my mind at a second magnitude, or class two threshold, allowing me a sharper grasp of the texture of gabriel’s field architecture. Unlike the majority of the crew—for whom gabriel’s special geometry produced forces that were invisible and virtually undetectable—I was keenly aware of the intricate structure and flow of the invisible body of the ship around me. 
	we had taken on our precious cargo, and the last members of our crew, the specialists assigned to monitor and maintain that cargo. In the event that we found a suitable nest to deliver our eggs to, those technicians would start incubating the embryos. In full production, about a thousand babies would be turned out a year, and about four times that number of stock animals. Food for the crew and the first generation of colonists would be provided from the extensive hydroponics sections of the ship, in which even selected meats were grown. The hydroponics sections served multiple purposes, actually. They provided fresh fruits, vegetables and meat, assisted in balancing oxygen, carbon and water cycles, participated in organic waste treatment, and contributed the psychological welfare of the crew. 
	
	david aes · sports and culls
	
	that reminded me of what alan once said about fear and the need to take things for granted. What he described had been an extreme, a pathological need to take things for granted. For me, there were things I had to take for granted as an exercise in not noticing to clearly what my inner eye always revealed. To use my psychokinetic abilities, I had to take it for granted that my unconscious attention knew what to do. So, I can not say that it is wrong to take things for granted. Still given a choice in taking something for granted because I know what’s going on well enough to trust the outcome, or taking something for granted because looking at it to closely is frightening and overwhelming, well, i’m not very fond of being frightened and overwhelmed. It makes me violently jumpy. People have an amazing capacity for faith, but nowhere does it say that faith is intended to be unjustified. Only a con artist benefits from blind faith.
	whereas an artist benefits from faith in herself—eternally struggling to justify that faith.
	becoming active involves a degree of suffering. One has to bear the overwhelming contact of the universe on one’s naked understanding. One has to adjust that understanding to accommodate the truths that shake one’s foundation or that foundation will shake apart. Because the experience is intensely personal, it more often produces an artist than it does a scientist. One can turn this growth in understanding into knowledge with studied effort, but one cannot help finding it easy to turn it into technique.
	
	I realized all of this slowly over the years. 
	

	
Reservations and projects
	sleepers, dampers, neural locks and leashes
	psionic ratings; active, latent, geometric scale, access scale, class—order of magnitude scale
	field tech; interface drive—drive core and field array, field architecture, field sail
	interface navigation:
	cord depth—an artificial measurement where two points are bridged through the interface, the space between those points is treated as the circumference of a displaced circle or sphere—the diameter of that sphere is used as the measure of translation depth. 
	angle of interface—controls point to point reference in a four-dimensional field matrix
	there is nothing as dangerous as the interface between the physical and the athenal. 
	surface navigation:
	sector quadrants—1° x 1° garc · 360° x 360° radial grid in concentric shells 1,000 light-years deep
	
	the shock she had endured could easily scar her mind in such a way that it would shy into such a trap. The damage to her mind would evaporate with the restoration of her brain, but the memory of that trauma would be a scar that heal until confronted it and got over it. Cathy was a strong girl, though, and I expected her to pull through. She did not have to face the same challenge that a latent mind had to, since she had already overcome the biggest obstacle in the past.	
	
	you plot the displacement and shift to a position at depth. What is really happening is that you are storing a pattern in memory, and then shifting your attention to a defined graphic position. At that point you bend 
	 scan the compressed field to confirm continuity, when you catch up with yourself imprint at the surface and wait for the displacement to collapse
	we are already at two-hundred degrees of chord. That puts us outside of the sphere of our universe! You know the theory! The closest relative points are not on the same world-sheet we left
	ch 7	approach at ao
	
	ch 6	boundaries · love and hate
	
	albedo, mantle, umbra, aura, corona
	the truth is always a searing and blinding light. It is easier to look at it through reflection on its different and constituent parts. 
	odd bits of reflection
	a structure of four spatial dimensions derived from early twenty-first century advances in field technology. The same technology—the same manipulation of forces—that twisted the ship out of relativistic space to make interstellar travel possible. 
	
	field technology had been developed in the shadow of psionic research. The abilities which were being discovered in a growing proportion of the population had been explored and recreated while the scientific community was still scrambling to remain afloat in the upheaval. A hundred years later, I could attest, science was still behind nature. 
	sector quadrants (360 x 360 radial grid) on annulus shells (standard volume) by peano curve. That gives each of your sightings a wide spread. Wide enough to reveal that converged in a rough sphere of probability well outside of this quadrant. I don’t know what you are getting drawn to, but seems to outshine stars to your eyes. 
	[a taste of purgatory · love and hate in the ashes · a desperate ten years were dearly spent before] the mission limped unexpectedly into the neighborhood of the perfect world · remote survey, identifying it through spectral analysis, pinpoints the earth-like world as a viable home for the lost colonists 
	
	force glass did not reflect light, but I could picture myself easily enough. I was, in all, a striking collection of exotic compromises. I had to admit I had more than one strange inheritance from my japanese-irish mother and scottish father. Dominant and most shocking, was the distinctive blood red tint of my hair. Celtic in coloring, temper and height, but asian in bone structure, complexion and body tone. My face was an enigma to me, but ... I had my doubts whether the total effect was what I would call attractive, but I had to admit it was unique. A high tech bodyglove covering me to the tips of my fingers and toes was molded to my body’s contour. Military fashion had adapted to space. The black and dark gray single-suit was more than a uniform. The material was a specially engineered, active force matrix that acted as level one armor—a very specialized cousin of force glass. It left little to the imagination, but on the bright side it was impossible to wrinkle and allowed an athletic freedom of movement.
	—————————————————————	
	a deep blue sky glowed through the open windows. The pale wash of false dawn caressed the folds and edges of the bed and the furnishings about the room. The soft light rested gently on the sleeping form of the stranger. Her hair was a dark formless mass in the dim ambiance, but her pale features were luminous as her flesh drank in the weak light. The young woman bore a striking resemblance to the head of the estate who sat on the edge of the bed lightly brushing stray threads of the stranger’s mane back from her peaceful face. While no one on this world had ever seen her before, anna’je’ara was intimately familiar with this daughter of hers.
	it would be difficult, to say the least, to explain her sudden appearance among the household when the rest of taelnihayr awoke. But strangers had dropped through the interface without warning before. Anna’je’ara, tightened her other hand on the sheet she wore draped around her and rose silently from the bed. With deft movements she drew the drapes tight over the windows to block out the early light. On whispering feet she withdrew from the room, meeting her friend and lover at the door. Vai’aoun looked at je’ara carefully before escorting her to an alcove to discuss what was to be done.
	“the resemblance is unmistakable, but she is aelyn. How do you plan to explain it?” Aoun, anna’je’ara’s shadow, asked. Her face was a careful mask over her emotions. Aoun, standing nude, could not hide from the symmetry between her own slender and athletic body and that of the girl they had left in the bed. Anna’je’ara frowned and turned away in silence. Aoun watched her friend’s profile for several minutes waiting before raising her hand to the lyn’s arm. “anen...”
	“like you are aelyn?” Anna’je’ara hissed at the use of the familiar name, cutting aoun off. She turned back and apologized to her friend with her eyes. She spoke with a sad, wry smile, “I don’t plan to explain anything, vaon. There are no words that will make a difference in people’s minds. We broke the law. But no one in this house will dare speak what they cannot help but think. We will have a little time, at least,” anen sighed and looked back at the closed door down the hallway. She laid a hand over aoun’s heart. “she will have to go back through the interface. Maybe among the terrans she will have a chance,” she mused. 
	aoun folded her own hands over the anen’s. The terrans were alyn, male and female. Their child would not stand out like anen would. The lyn were a much older race, identical to the younger alyn race in every way but gender, capable of both sexual and asexual reproduction within their single gender. When lyn had discovered alyn, alyn had been living as animals. Lyn had been delighted to adopt alyn and domesticate that convergent species—until the lyn as a whole realized that their pets were so genetically compatible they were actually breeding with lyn. Scores of millennia had not been sufficient to quell the outrage of that discovery. 
	that uproar had been nothing beside what had happened when aoun’s kind had discovered their own compatibility with the alyn. Aoun turned her thoughts away from that with painful determination. Aoun focused back on their ill-conceived child. “there is a chance,” the shadow began thoughtfully, “we can’t escape the consequences of what we have done, but we might be able to salvage her at least. They cannot know exactly what she is, no matter what they will suspect. It won’t even be possible to determine what she is until she herself fully realizes it, and from what I saw tonight, she is a long way from that. That first moment was too great a shock for her. We can’t deny she’s your daughter, but there is no account of your affairs during your time among the humans...”
	anna’je’ara did not need much encouragement to follow where her faithful shadow was leading, “and it is common knowledge that transiting the interface without a guide across such a depth as separates anth from the aegis can cause severe mental damage or confusion. Yes, there really is no harm in recognizing her at least until her mind recovers enough to survive the passage to ajea.” Anen leaned into her shadow and draped the sheet around them both. They held each other in silence as light filtered in through narrow windows with the gathering dawn. As of yet, they had avoided thinking of the price they must inevitably pay for exceeding the bounds of their intimate working relationship. They would die for their love. They accepted that. What they might do to protect the embodiment of that love did not bear thinking on.
	
	her dreams struggled between chaos and oblivion. She was absently aware that she was dreaming. Her mind was a riot of memories and emotions, many conflicting and disjointing each other. Most of it did not really register as she drifted helplessly through alien landscapes of the mind warped together from bits and pieces of familiar places. The background whirled while the center of her focus remained dauntingly normal. She tried to remember what made her wake up in the dream. It was not easy to concentrate on the question and it had eluded her several times already. 
	clenching her teeth, she narrowed her focus, pulling her attention away from the distracting images. The dreamscape misted and grayed about her as she struggled with the evasive memory of dreaming. As her mind gathered around her query she closed her eyes and pretended that she didn't know what would happen next. She remembered being tired and a weight had settled on her like a lover. She wanted to cry because this was how it always started. An inescapable pressure plunged her body into the paths of sleep but cast her mind adrift. 
	merciful oblivion floated beyond her reach, an impenetrable sea. She twisted, she writhed, but every move only loosened the contours of her private universe. Every sensation became cleaner, sharper. A laser shearing through dissipating smoke as her mind flowed beyond it into the cold abyss. Searing and electric. Endless. I KNOW THIS AND I KNOW I CAN'T ESCAPE THIS. She tried to scream. Anything. Wake up. But the sound shivered across the threads of her soul—horrifying how it eclipsed the sphere of her mind—and then the brilliant sound exploded in the light of understanding, piercing her inner eye. An instant glimpse of the meaning of her scream; terror, agony, ecstasy—av—a word, a concept of beginning and ending and change, but the thought seemed inexpressible. Unbearable. She coiled around another scream but the echoes reached her before she could start. The echoes swallowed her. The shadows twisted and coiled about her, piercing and penetrating her. Their convolutions reduced to strands of silk. Gossamer sheets of tangled cobwebs that settle and cling to trap her ephemeral awareness. The growing weight of weave becoming sensation. A body; taunting a still waking mind’s understanding. 
	awakening brought it s own confusion. Listless thoughts drifted toward the last echo, and it threatened to escape her comprehension. It struck her suddenly, a sense of identity. It had been her name that had caught her attention in the dream. Then she frowned. Oddly, while it felt right, she could not remember actually ever having been called by that name. This uncertainty knotted into a kind of pain; a vain struggle to find a memory, a sense of past to attach her present awareness to. While a part of her panicked at the absence of continuity, the rest of her harkened to explore, and thus connect with world that sensation described. So she opened her eyes. Muted light seeped through the draped windows. The heavy down comforter pressed her body’s heat back on her. Av sat up and the cover slid from her shoulder to bunch up in her lap. She smiled at the warm familiarity of the room around her. 
	a glint sparked in her eye, and she slid powerfully from the bed, dragging away the comforter—the only covering she had needed apparently. It slid fluidly off of her and pooled on the hardwood floor unnoticed. Turning triumphantly, to see what else she recognized, she happened to catch a glimpse of herself in the picture mirror on the wall.
	 

	THAT IS, APPROXIMATELY 1.267650600228 X 1030 N (NEWTONS, OR THE FORCE NECESSARY TO ACCELERATE ONE KILOGRAM AT ONE METER PER SECOND, SQUARED) AT THE LOW END OF CLASS THREE. WHICH TRANSLATES INTO FORCE CAPABLE OF ACCELERATING A MASS OF 1,267,650,600,228,000,000,000,000,000,000 KG AT 1 M/S2
	
	MASS OF EARTH: 5.974 X 1024 KG · 5,974,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 KG
	
	1.267650600228 X 1030 N / 5.974 X 1024 KG = 212,194.6100148 M/S2 
	OR 212.1946100148 KM/S2
	
	MASS OF SOL: 1.989019404 X 1030 · 1,989,019,404,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 KG
	
	1.267650600228 X 1030 N / 1.989019404 X 1030 KG = 0.6373244009982 M/S2
	
	

Phoenix asked if there was a conference going on. It was just a guess, but it paid off. “It was on the news this morning. The Prime Minister of the Solar Authority called for an Assembly. An emergency conference. I can’t tell you anything more than that,” Arthur Remington, the senior agent, responded. 
	Phoenix raised an eyebrow. No, you don’t need to tell me more than that. All of a sudden this seems very familiar, she thought to herself. She had been summoned to such assemblies before as an observer. Covert security, really. An assassin could not hide from a telepath, especially not when the telepath in question was between the ages of seven and nine. Certainly not when the girl in question thought she was playing a game. Phoenix still could not believe how easy she had been to manipulate. She could still hear the leading taunt that had hooked her. Hey, Phoenix, do you think you can find someone in this crowd? This person is supposed to be thinking about one of the people you met earlier, as a target thought. No other clues. It can be a man or a woman. Maybe one, maybe more. This person might even be trying to control their surface thoughts. Phoenix had not always found the search object, but she had loved to play the game. Sometimes it had been more complicated, but it always involved a distinct, and out of place element. Phoenix swallowed as she thought about it. A very dangerous game to let a child play, given a child’s sense of consequences.
	Still, she knew the truth now, and she felt a kind of relief. She had known for some time that they would start making demands of her again. Phoenix wished they would simply leave her alone, but she did not fool herself. She was a valuable resource. She had been born to be exploited. But, of the many things that had been asked of her and her gifted mind, Threat Search was one of the few things she could honestly say she was happy to do. Phoenix allowed herself a small smile and felt some of her self-assurance return to her. To think that she had grown so paranoid that she had feared and expected some horrible demand would be made of her again.

/—0 - 7—/	
	Answers seemed to come to young Ember unbidden from deep within herself. Answers to questions she would not be able to ask until long after they had become facts unique to her strange world. Answers that often drove the girl to run away from the families and institutions that the authorities tried to place her in. It was inevitable that there would come a day when she would meet an individual whom she could not hide herself from—an individual with the ability to see what she really was. She had not prepared herself for the thought that there would be more than one such individual. The only way she could hope to survive the devastation that came down upon her—the only way she could live with the consequences of what that onslaught will do to those around her—was to face the hardest and most dangerous obstacle she would ever encounter—herself.
	Ember was awakened to her full potential violently. She was asleep and she felt someone force their way into her mind. She struggled, instinctively rejecting this penetration of herself. She was overpowered at first and the psychic rape continued. As the probing became unbearably deep something in her snapped, and she lashed out. She stabbed deep into her assailant’s mind and then shoved everything away from her to lick her wounds. Or rather, she apparently shoved herself away from everything and almost died. Without her instincts—her intuition—she would have.
/—7 - 11—/
	Since she never perceived anything exceptional in what she could do, Ember had no idea that she was special. By the time she had been able to recognize what she was, she had already been relocated to a psionic reservation and research project. She had been so young when she joined the project she never realized what a strictly controlled environment she had entered. Psionic ability was common on a reservation, and residents were all subtly conditioned in the ethics and etiquette of using their ability. She was trained, like all the other children in the community, to develop and master the abilities of her body and mind. She learned quickly and applied herself to new challenges with creativity and determination. She could be relied on to take responsibilities seriously. She could go in and help the adults with their work, but she didn’t know that they were working for the government on highly classified research. As far as she was aware, they were all perfectly normal people and so she never had to deal with the fact that she was one of the most dangerous human beings ever born on Earth.

