AV 00-0000 MAIN
	Perspective and Context
	For additional contributing perspective and context notes, see also: Naked Goddess 00-0000. 

The Avatar Project - Overview
Concept Notes

Av is an enigma, a child of paradox and mystery. Av embodies the Absolute in herself, a soul of discrimination and integration, a dream conceived and executed in her own realization. In order to present her story, it is necessary to first outline the events and circumstances through which she herself is subject to the manifestation of her own promise. A far more difficult undertaking than one would imagine, for her story presents one with a mind torturing tour of the impossible. All the same, for a soul, all things are possible. The hard part for her would be learning to understand herself. 

In consideration of the design evolved in the extended story, it is evident that the positions and roles of Andrea and Alex are partially inverted. Corrections are underway, and until complete there will be apparent contradictions and unresolved paradoxes in the following notes. 

Conceptions
The Envelope of Point Paradox

Alexandrea's first life was three-fold, spent in a twenty-seven year loop. It was a loop in which she was thrice conceived and born in and of herself when she was seventeen and twenty-one, subjectively and respectively, in which she was rescued from dissolution at the age of twenty-seven by herself on the cusp of turning seven. All three embodiments of her were subject to that loop, passing through the mind’s eye to preserve their own conception. At the moment of her conception, Alexandrea was literally in three places at the same time, caught in the embodiment of her primal understanding--the conception of herself in the understanding of her parents' union, and the conception of the pair her emergence had supplanted.

Alexandrea
Alex was born an only child, or so she thought. Unknown to her, her conception had occurred in triplicate, as a consequence of the extraordinary union of Ashana and Ashara's minds, bodies and spirits. Alex was Alexandrea’s lone daughter. Alex was taken into the Human Establishment and inducted into the Avatar Project. Alex inherited her mother’s mind, and lived in the shadow of her memory for ten years.

Alexandrea, at the age of twenty-seven, passed through the depths of Alex’s unconscious mind into the world within her. She awoke, having died in the embrace of her male aspect, in avon form on ancient Aeryn, where she would blood the Dragon and Phoenix Avatars who gave birth to the avon race. Due to her recognition as the Goddess, Alexandrea took flight, eventually stumbling across Earth where she divided herself into male and female aspects, maintaining a low profile for several thousand years before reuniting herself in Earth’s twenty-first century and conceiving her first avon daughter, Arden. 

Alexandrea’s death as Autumn Morgan, during an unexpected encounter in deep space, when Arden was only seven years old, opened a door through which she was able to ascend into the body of Alex. 

Alex was sixteen years old when she was assaulted by enemies of the Empire. Her primary assailant sought to use her as a cat’s paw in an attempt to penetrate the Imperial House. Alex withdrew from the psychic rape, trading places with her mother in the shadow of her own mind. 

Alexandrea, with her greater experience, and superior position in the strange paradox of her life, was able to escape from the assault on her daughter by feigning her own death. Alexandrea buried all of her memories in Andrea, and transferred her naked mind, and the core of her identity, to Alexander, triggering his translation into female form. Knowing what she did about what would unfold during the next year, and how crucial it was to her existence, she would be unable to awaken until the touch of Alex’s psychic assailant drove the conjoined minds of Xander and Andrea to retreat leaving Alexander free to remember herself and execute the ambush she had set up for the rapist. 

Andrea, or rather the union of herself and Xander, was fighting an all out assault on her mind when she slipped through the eye, arriving in the past by retreating into the very depths of her own mind to escape, emerging in the moment of her conception. She was drawn into a reunion with Alex, who was trapped in the Eye of Paradox, and Alex-Andrea contributed a gestalt understanding of things to come that changed Ashana and Ashara as much as they had changed each other and Alex-Andrea. The two couples that had embraced were replaced by three identical young women, due to the fusion of the female aspects of Ashana and Ashara and the transformation of their unscathed male aspects that was triggered by the conceptual revelation of unity. An unconscious attempt to hold on to what they had been resulted in the inception of replicas of their selves in sex-split compliment-twins even as each member of the new trinity conceived of a daughter self. 

Alex
Alex was born an only child, or so she thought. Unknown to her, her conception had occurred in triplicate, as a consequence of the extraordinary union of Ashana and Ashara's minds, bodies and spirits. Alex was Alexandrea’s lone daughter. Alex was taken into the Human Establishment and inducted into the Avatar Project. 

Alex inherited her mother’s mind, and lived in the shadow of her memory for ten years. Alexandrea, at the age of twenty-seven, passed through the depths of Alex’s unconscious mind into the world within her. She awoke, having died in the embrace of her male aspect, in avon form on ancient Aeryn, where she would blood the Dragon and Phoenix Avatars who gave birth to the avon race. Due to her recognition as the Goddess, Alexandrea took flight, eventually stumbling across Earth where she divided herself into male and female aspects, maintaining a low profile for several thousand years before reuniting herself in Earth’s twenty-first century and conceiving her first avon daughter, Arden. 

Alexandrea’s death as Autumn Morgan, in the shadow of Alex’s mind, during an unexpected encounter in deep space when Arden was only seven years old, opened a door through which she was able to ascend into the body of Alex. 

Alex was sixteen years old when she was assaulted by enemies of the Empire. Her primary assailant sought to use her as a cat’s paw in an attempt to penetrate the Imperial House. Alex withdrew from the psychic rape, trading places with her mother in the shadow of her own mind. 

Alex awoke in the seven year old body of Arden, shaken by the assault she had escaped and the momentary touch of her mother’s mind as they passed through each other, and found herself in a situation too similar to the one that scarred her original childhood. Given the similarities in the situation she confronted, she convinced herself that her memory of the past ten years was some sort of delusion, a fantasy she retreated into in the moment of her mother’s death. 

Alex was determined not to make the mistakes she had made in her “fantasy” and took up her mother’s responsibilities. By the time she was seventeen again, she had been a key figure in revealing the existence of an alien threat, the truth about psionics, and a new order of technology that had been abstracted from psionic research. She earned an essential position in the Exodus, and again proved a key figure when her entire convoy was lost in a translation accident. Alex guided her fleet through the uncharted depths of hyperspace, bringing them safely to the shores of Oasis, where they encountered the avon race. 

Alex was shocked to find herself in a place she remembered from her “fantasy” among a race of people like herself. She was not surprised at all to be recognized by both sides as the emissary of first contact. She was an alien raised among humans, and virtually alien to avon culture. The worst part of it was, like on Earth, the reaction of an entire civilization to her appearance. When she confronted humans with the truth about psionics, they had tried to deify her. She knew from her “fantasy” that she resembled the avon deity, but she had not expected them to assert that she was the Goddess. 

Alex could not help but be caught in the middle of the conflict that was brewing as human and avon conservatives provoked crisis after crisis that eventually turned into war. Because humans were psionically latent for the most part, avon conservatives insisted that, given the compatibility of the two races, it was necessary for humans to be integrated into avon civilization in a subordinate role as a servitor race. Human conservatives asserted that humans and avon must not interbreed or submit to non-human authority. The essential problem had to do with the fathering of children. A human man produced human children, when mating with a female or an avon. An avon sire produced avon children, when mating with a female or an avon. While genetic material could easily be exchanged between the two races, the sexes, which were the defining difference between those races, were clearly discriminate. 

Three parties of thought, or factions, emerged. The conservative avon were considered to be pro-servitor, conservative humans considered to be pro-establishment, while the majority of people spread out between those extreme views were considered to be pro-consort. It escalated into a bloody war. Peace came at the personal cost of Alex. She was forced to sacrifice herself to prevent the sabotage of the Gates of Paradox from destroying the universe. By virtue of her success, she was recognized as God/Goddess incarnate, and her last instructions to the Twin Pillars of the Empire redefined the role and nature of the Avon Emperor, and the Imperial Line. The First War of Contact resulted in the creation of separate Human and Avon Establishments constituted by conservatives and those seeking to preserve their native culture and beliefs opting for separation from the Avon Empire. Other Establishments already existed, representing other sentient races linked together by the Gates of Paradox controlled by the Avon Empire. The two new Establishments joined the Allied Establishments of the Aegis, which constituted a formal senate joining the Imperial Court, constituted by the Houses of the Avon Empire, in balancing the power of the Imperium. 

Ashana & Ashara
Ashana and Ashara were in love, and rejoiced at the news that they were to provide an heir to the Emperor. Due to the dangers of embracing each other in their natural forms, Ashana and Ashara could only consummate their union in the male and female embodiments of the God and the Goddess. Unfortunately, their first two conceptions produced female children, who were not accepted as principle heirs and would most likely be required to take up the mantle of the Goddess. The controversy of this discrimination was as old as the Empire, and was based on prejudices found in both the Human Establishment and the Avon Establishment regarding succession and inheritance. If Ashana and Ashara did not conceive a male child, then their eldest daughter would become Empress, but they were required to make every effort to produce a male child prior to the Emperor's death or abdication. Ashana and Ashara had ached, all their lives, for the opportunity to embrace each other fully as equals. Over the four years of their union, they had contemplated every possible way of fulfilling that dream without triggering the fatal fusion of such a perfect union. The closest they had come had been for both to assume their female form, as they had when they had both served as Ideals, and it was in that way they had always embraced each other save for performing their duty to conceive a child. In contemplating the resurgence of that duty, they were tempted by a sudden inspiration. 

Ashana and Ashara were able to split into self-complimenting aspects, male and female or dragon and phoenix. It was believed that the polarity of dragon and phoenix nature was what made it so dangerous to embrace each other in their avon forms, but in human forms, those qualities balanced, assuming the neutrality common to natural humans. It was as a man and a woman that they were required to fulfill the obligation of the twin pillars of the Avon Empire. If it was safe to mate as male and female, why not then cross compliment and mate as both? It seemed to be perfectly safe, but in the process they discovered the truth of the fatal conception. 

The danger of embracing in avon forms was not, as they had always assumed, opening themselves to a union of their dragon and phoenix natures, but to a union of phoenix natures that triggered the conception of a new phoenix. The refinement of dragon-phoenix polarity simply made it possible for the phoenix heart of the dragon mate to merge with the phoenix heart so prominently proffered by the phoenix mate. It was not, therefore, only the avon forms that put them at risk. It was the mating of two bodies of the same sex, the same physical polarity, combined with the mating of two spirits of opposite polarity that catalyzed the union they feared, whether both were in avon forms or human male or female forms. They had both identified more with their female embodiment, as it was virtually identical to their native avon, so they had always embraced each other as cloaked phoenixes before. They had attained in human form the protection of any two phoenixes in avon form. By projecting their male embodiments, to make love to each other, they were exposing their phoenix hearts to each other, naked within a combined dragon mantle. The female embodiments, laying face to face so they might embrace, kiss and caress each other as their projected male embodiments entered the other lover from behind, were suddenly seized by the fatal fusion. The two bodies merged into one, the two minds eclipsed in the understanding of the union and the awakening of the one who conceived of herself in that union, and passed into the male embodiments excluded from the fusion through the mechanism of rebirth, triggering their shift to the female embodiments that had been slain. It took only an instant, for the paired lovers to be transformed into a trinity, and conceive of themselves in the light of this union. 

They could not go back to who and what they had been. Ashana and Ashara had not conceived of themselves yet, and remained locked at the physical age of seventeen, as a result of possessing living precursors and spending most of their time in human forms. Like the individual conceived in their union, Ashana and Ashara now faced an entirely new existence. All three were reborn in the unexpected revelation of a non-fatal resolution of the perfect union. It was possible, however, for each to conceive of who and what she had been, even as she conceived of who and what she now was. Two of this new trinity found within them a trinity of new lives. For Ashana and Ashara, reborn, there was a daughter heir to all she now was, and a daughter-son compliment heir to all she had been. For the new one, there was only one seed, the seed of a child identical to the promethean daughters of Ashana and Ashara, a three way conception of herself in the understanding of the trinity of her own conception. 

It was in the wake of these inceptions that the neo-triplets were forced to turn to the seeds of life within them to determine who bore which of the burdens revealed in their glimpse of their lives to come. One, bearing the seed of a single daughter, would have to carry that seed into the Human Establishment and would die before the child turned eight. One, bearing the seed of two daughters, would remain the mother to the children Ashana and Ashara had already had, and assume the name of Ashana until her own death in the same unfortunate year. One, bearing the seed of two daughters, would succumb to a poison that would damage the trinity-daughter, and cause it to develop into a male fetus. That one would be Ashara, who would live, acting as the empress's regent for the reincarnated Ashana. 

The reincarnate compliments would be taken by their Houses, and raised as heirs to the twin pillars. The girl turned boy would be raised in wandering exile by the male aspect of Ashara, as the legal heir to the Emperor--a girl who had developed into a boy by virtue of the very poison that killed the Emperor himself. The other girl would be fourth in line to the throne, raised with her two older sisters in a less severe exile to Oasis by the male aspect of Ashana. The female aspect of Ashana would rise to the throne as the champion of the war triggered by the assassination of the Emperor, by virtue of ancient laws of precedence and inaccurate interpretation of certain prophesies. Ashana's trinity-daughter would be the first of the five children conceived on that day of union to encounter the daughter of Alexandrea, three years after the deaths of their mothers. The game they played to become acquainted with each other's lives would one day cost Alex her life. 

Alexandrea
The new individual conceived in that perfect union took the name Alexandrea. In her understanding, Alexandrea was a spy, working under deep cover within the Avon Empire, where she was Av Ashon an embodiment of the goddess. Her memory insisted that her mother had virtually given her up to prevent her from being raised into the same calling. Ironically, she had been given up to the ASIA, which raised her with the intention of having her follow in her mother's steps. She did not realize that she was being prepared for that specific task, but she had been raised in the Avatar Project, and her preparation had been concealed in the body of her training as an Avatar. She was only seven when she experienced her mother's death through the rapport that had allowed her mother to be a constant part of her early life. The experience scarred her, while at the same time opening the doors to her psionic potential wide open. She feared that the destruction she caused reacting to her mother's death would never be forgotten or forgiven, that her masters would conclude once and for all that she was simply too powerful to be allowed to live. It was that fear, coupled with a dark secret she went to any length to preserve, which created the real concerns about her stability. It was during an emergency that the fears about her were set aside, and she was prematurely activated as her mother's replacement. She knew her mother would not have wanted her to follow in her footsteps, but she could not resist the possibility of somehow finding and punishing her mother's killer. It did not surprise her to be targeted by deadly enemies at the very dawn of her career. It did shock her to wake up from a brutal physical and psychic rape in the middle of her mother's life. 

Alexandrea feared at first that she had withdrawn from reality and taken refuge in her mother's memories. She also feared the realization that she was living through the events of her mother's life as if she was actually present and participating in those events. In spite of her fears, she could not escape or elude the experience. It was possible that what she was forced to experience subjectively was actually occurring in an instant, as her mind was finally forced to integrate mother and daughter into one. Instead of fighting it, she tried to understand what was happening, who her mother had been and what her life had been like. 

The first part was understanding the first event, what seemed to be the beginning of her mother's life, her conception in perfect union. Strangely, it took no time to integrate the memory of her mother's conception. Her mother had conceived of herself in the understanding of Ashana and Ashara. She also conceived of who and what the understanding of her own conception had made her, a single seed that would divide into a trinity. As with Ashana and Ashara, Alexandrea's seed was locked in stasis for three years, from the shock of the strange inception. The triplets were separated at birth. Their mother had been accompanied into exile by the projected male embodiments of Ashana and Ashara. One of them had been encouraged to adopt a male form when she spontaneously displayed a chameleon like tendency to reflect the sex of the person she was trying to identify with. Ashara taught her to control the ability she had to polymorph, and she had already built up a strong self-image as a boy and remained male, named Alexander (later shortened to Alex). She even forgot in time that she had ever been a girl. To protect their older girls from being forced into a devotion to the Goddess, Ashana sent her eldest daughters with her male embodiment, who parted company from Alexandrea to separate Alex and Andrea. The triplets of Ashana and Ashara remained in the Avon Empire for the simple reason that they had not been born yet, and were later prevented from leaving as a consequence of the Emperor learning that Ashana had sent the older girls into exile. 

Alex & Andrea
Alexandrea Virginia Morgan, or Alex, had assumed she was an only child until the death of her mother when she was seven years old. Her mother had never identified either of her mates, or any or Alex's siblings to her superiors, leaving Alex an orphan in the custody of the Avatar Project. Before Alexandrea's death, Alex had been a pseudo-latent or instinct-manifestation psionic. She had been capable of minor telekinesis, and shared full telepathic rapport with her mother, and part of her power had been tapped and harnessed to make her ambisexual, able to switch back and forth between being a boy and being a girl. Alex was allowed to believe that she had been born a normal girl while she was growing up. She was reared in an environment in which the powers of her mind did not seem extraordinary, but in fact were minor in comparison to those possessed by other adults and children around her. In her own way, she had always been an exceptional individual. She had a gift for Athletics and Academics and an instinctive and intuitive grasp of Aesthetics. As active and energetic as she was, she still managed to spend a great deal of time in a world of her own--but she never imagined that her dream world was anything more than that, a vivid and entertaining flight of fancy. It would simply stun her to realize that the place she dreamed of was the real world, and the world she lived in a dream. It would startle her more to learn that, while the two worlds she thought of as her own were the same world, there was another world in which she was the subject of a strange experiment to awaken the potential of her mind, an experiment reflected in her world as the Avatar Project. Her potential had been tremendous, even greater than her mother's some believed. That potential was awakened by the trauma of her mother's death. 

Unfortunately, the trauma also left her shattered. She was catatonic for several months, and then she found an unusual way to draw herself out of it. She woke up one morning split into her male and female halves. Each half retained the ability to change sex, making it possible for her to pass as twin girls or twin boys, which she often did--but the thing that worried her patrons was the fact that she created and maintained four separate identities. The girls were Anne and Alle, the boys were Andy and Alex. If one imagined that she really was four separate individuals, the relationships between them appeared perfectly normal. All of her aspects responded to the name Alexandrea--or Av, a nickname formed from her first and middle initial. Alex's patrons were even more shocked when two of those identities turned out to be avatars of her twin sister. Concern for Alex prompted a successful search for her father, and the discovery that she had a twin sister, who bore the same name and called herself Andrea. In this strange way, Andrea and Alex were spiritually reunited by the death of their mother. The trauma of sharing her mother's death through their telepathic rapport had nearly shattered Andrea's mind too. Andrea possessed greater power than Alex, and utilized it with greater proficiency. Her greater skill had shielded her from the full impact of their mother's death, and allowed her to unconsciously help rehabilitate Alex over the next three years. It never occurred to anyone to imagine that Alex had another "father" or twin sibling, but it was Alexander and Andrea working unconsciously together who rehabilitated Alex. It was the intrusion of their unconscious minds that had split Alex in two, a reflection of their conceptual paradigm, the duality within the unity. 

Alex was not informed of the discovery of her family, but she was allowed to spend three years sorting herself out with the unconscious assistance, in which she was "Anne" and "Alle" most often. No one commented openly on her precocious sexuality, which she explored shamelessly with herself, as it seemed to have been a significant part of what had snapped her out of her catatonia to begin with. Adventurous as she was, she was discrete in exploring sex, and she showed the same discretion and discrimination in exploring psi. She seemed to have mastered both by the time she was nine, and pulled herself together. 

When Alex was eleven, she accidentally encountered the real Andrea at a psionic youth retreat, and switched places with her to become acquainted with her father and older sisters. Andrea, she discovered, had two sisters, one and three years older. Neither twin knew that their father was in fact the mother of their older sisters, from a union that the events of Andrea and Alex's conception dissolved. Due to Alex's enrollment in the Avatar Project, and Andrea's obligations to her own patrons, it proved impossible for Alex to remain with her father and sisters in their home on Oasis when the switch was discovered, but allowances were made for her to visit frequently. Oasis was the threshold between the Avon Empire and the Human Establishment, two of the major powers of the Aegis. The third major power in the Aegis, the Avon Establishment, consisted of purists who rejected the integration of human and avon races and cultures--a prejudice matched only by that of the Human Establishment's conservatives. The Empire acted as a buffer between its antagonistic allies, resting its authority in the promotion and preservation of the imperial bloodline, and the legends asserting its origin in the embodiments of the Goddess--revered by avon--and the God--revered by humans. 

Alex became aware that her twin had developed the habit of changing her appearance in public, and inquired why, when they met for their fifteenth birthday. The explanation startled her. Alex was astonished to discover that she and her entire family were humans of avon descent, born into the exclusive imperial bloodline. The avon imperial bloodline was an extraordinary phenomenon, save for the representation of all three sexes, all members of the bloodline were genetically identical. Due to the perfect parity of the imperial genome, any breeding within the pure bloodlines produced genetically identical offspring. Because of this extraordinary fact, there were strict rules and obligations imposed on the pure bloods. Because her mother had refused, or been unable, to identify her own parentage, she had been exiled. Her mates had followed her into exile, forsaking their own ties, and thus the ties of their children. For the entire exiled branch, there was a way to return to avon society, but it meant accepting a role that was equal parts priest, paladin and prostitute, in service of the Trinity that had originally embodied and given birth to the imperial line. Unfortunately, while the imperial line was revered in the Empire, and respected in the Allied Establishments, attacks against the Empire were often directed against children of that bloodline. Such had been the conclusion regarding the death of Andrea and Alex's mothers. When Alex was sixteen years old, it proved true once again. 

Alexander & Alexandrea
Book Option - Proposed 02/05/01 - Begin Main Thread

Alex's death in the Human Establishment, while pretending to be Andrea, raised countless unanswered and unanswerable questions. In spite of her sister’s warnings to disguise her imperial blood, Alex refused to disguise herself and was targeted by an infiltration agent seeking a form that would allow it to penetrate the Imperial House. It could just as easily have been Andrea. Despite her altered public appearance, Andrea had never disguised her heritage, having lived at a distance from it on Oasis. Andrea's mind was better shielded against the trauma of her twin's death than it had been against the shock of her mother's, but she risked opening herself to it in the hope of saving her sister's mind. Andrea grasped her sister’s memories, along with an awesome amount of material she could not examine, but Alex herself slipped out of her grasp and into oblivion. Andrea fought so hard to save her that she exhausted her reserves and almost died with Alex. Her collapse did not go unnoticed, attracting the attention of the ASIA personnel conducting the investigation into Alex’s disappearance. 

Alex's death was suspected, based on some circumstantial evidence, which many individuals questioned suspiciously, but there was no doubt in Andrea's mind. Her sister was truly dead, and Andrea knew who Alex believed to be most likely to kill her. 

Alex's death left Andrea with her memories of avatar training. Andrea had spent part of her time growing up in the Avatar Project, pretending to be Alex. It was an experience which could make anyone paranoid, but in her case a bit of paranoia was justifiable and necessary. Alex's reaction to her mother's death had never been forgotten. For that reason, Andrea had controlled her reaction to her sister's death with iron will. Ironically, her apparent lack of reaction was causing more alarm than the devastating outburst of her sister’s childhood. Andrea was concerned by the increased security and observation presence, but she was deeply disturbed when she learned that her application for a psionic license was being denied. Andrea had applied through the Academy, hoping to qualify for a psionic license through the military. Alex had turned in an application as well, hoping that she could prove herself and prevent the powers above from simply terminating her. During her long rehabilitation, there had been too many hints, too much pressure on her to prove herself, and too many rumors of what happened to those too flawed for the program. 

The agents who came to get her disclosed nothing, being rather irritated at having to subdue her to take her into custody. Andrea was stunned to arrive at her destination and discover that the Avatar Project was offering her a commission, rather than canceling her ticket. 
Andrea could hardly believe it. She knew more than enough about the Avatar Project's charter to suspect dire possibilities, but the possibility that they would want her to take Alex’s place never occurred to her. 

The men revealed to Andrea that Alex had never known how important she was to her patrons. The ASIA and the Avatar Project had invested a great deal in Alex. She had been the best they had ever seen. Her loss was unbearable to her superiors. Andrea accused Alex’s patrons of having taken advantage of her apprehension, without ever realizing how extreme it was. Terrified of making a mistake and ending up on the dissecting room floor, she had been forced to extremes trying to excel in her training. Because of the rapport they had discovered between Alex and Andrea, they wanted to test Andrea and find out if Alex’s training and discipline had transferred to Andrea. It was possible, and it was an opportunity they could not pass up, Andrea had only one connection to the ASIA, who was now dead, and she was in the perfect position to go deep under cover within the Imperial Court of the Avon Empire. When she arrived home, she informed her family of her commission and of the mission she was expected to undertake.

Andrea had been shocked to learn that she was supposed to take the devotion to the Goddess, and act as a spy in the Avon Empire and the Avon Establishment. But, not as shocked as she was to see her twin alive. Andrea took a long walk in the woods to think over this new development in her life. Andrea was not prepared to unexpectedly run into Alex’s twin. Alex's death had triggered Xander's reversion to her natural female form, accompanied by a terrifying perspective shift that submerged Alexander’s personality and compelled her to take flight. She had been on the move for a week, and her grip on who and what she was supposed to be had to slipped. Andrea could not believe it when she discovered that the girl responded to the name Alex. Xander, incoherent, confused by her own memories of being Xander, and surprised at being addressed by the familiar version of her name, desperately fled from Andrea. She was not herself, and did not want anyone who knew her to see her in her present state. 

Andrea dwelt painfully on the scene with Xander. She convinced herself that the girl had been Alex, wounded in mind and spirit but apparently restored in the flesh. Andrea feared Alex had forgotten everything, that she had stolen the girl’s memories just as she had been fighting to keep herself alive and in one piece. The guilt ate at her through a sleepless night. Xander’s appearance had not gone unnoticed by Andrea’s new superiors. Once again, she was called in for an interview, which fell only a degree short of outright interrogation. She allowed the authorities to make the obvious assumptions, given the appearance of the girl, given the miniscule evidence of her actual death, but did not share her guilty suspicions. Instead, she offered to help rehabilitate the girl if she were found again. Given her heritage, it was possible for her to have cheated death. Like her new superiors, she hoped that it really was Alex, and would do anything to help the girl remember who she was. 

As she waited for the opportunity to meet the girl again, she tried to find out what the investigators had learned. The investigation into the suspected death of her twin sister had suddenly halted at the appearance of the visibly traumatized girl authorities assumed to be Alex. The discovery of this other Alex lifted some of the pressure to commission Andrea, prompting the Avatar Project to temporarily suspend the orders. They seemed to be reconsidering replacing Alex with Andrea, but certain suspicions remained aroused. The death of Andrea's sister had been brutal, an unspeakable and bizarre murder as testified by the bloody evidence in which only hints of who and what she had been survived in the remains. Officially, there was no question that Alex had been attacked and all but disintegrated, but the appearance of this new "Alex" forced the authorities to conclude that a pronouncement of death, which had been based on circumstantial evidence, could not be made given the scarcity of the remains they could identify. 

Andrea was caught off guard when the girl came to her in the middle of the night. Xander had spent days trying to figure out who she was. Her identity, which insisted that she was and had always been female, was at odds with her memories, which asserted that she had been male her entire life. Her mind seemed almost completely unhinged, and she forced her way into Andrea’s room, and then her mind, seeking in Andrea some clue to her true identity. Andrea sensed the turmoil in the girl and focused on helping to sort out the mess she was in. After many hours of telepathic therapy, restoring order to her shattered mind, Andrea knew the strange girl could not be her twin. She found herself confronting more than she dared to imagine in her wildest dreams. The girl memories revealed that she really was a boy, a boy with exceptional mental powers, who appeared to have inexplicably and spontaneously transformed into a perfect copy of Alex. The transformation took place at the very moment of Alex's death—estimated from the time Andrea had suffered her crippling seizure, and a feeling Alex dying in her mind. 
>
Andrea was supposed to remain with her family on Oasis. Her orders, ironically, required Andrea to assume her sister's identity to respond to a standing request for her to take up the devotion. She was supposed to trade places with her twin, once she was released from the hospital, to begin her mission. Unlike her superiors, Andrea knew the girl was not Alex, but she did not like the idea of forcing the other girl to take her place in the Avatar Project. Andrea confided her fears for the boy turned girl, pressing him for explanations and proof of his claims. The boy, when he could manage the temporary reversal of his transformation, could have been Andrea's own brother--and strangely enough, he was. His name was Alexander Victor Morgan. Like Andrea, Alex had grown up alone with a single parent. The boy's father turned out to be the twin of Alex and Andrea's father. The two men explained that they had been mated to the same woman, Alex, Alexander and Andrea's mother. Alexander had also, his father revealed, been born a girl and the manifestation of his female form at this time was an indication that Alex had fulfilled whatever subconscious impulse inspired her to develop as a boy, and further development required her to be a girl. He had been raised by his father, never knowing his mother. Alexandrea and her sister had been reunited and raised part of the time by their father following the death of their mother, whom the children were all named after. 

Andrea's existence, and her relationship with Alex, was known to many individuals and of course to certain aspects of AEA authority. She confronted this suddenly when imperial investigators pulled her aside for questioning. Andrea considered the information she had, and with a silent prayer, she stuck to her cover story and presented it virtually unedited to her interrogators. Andrea explained the history between Alex and herself, speaking from Alex's perspective, and she told them point blank that her twin sister was dead. Officially, she was still alive, but no one would ever see her again. Andrea suggested quietly through channels that the Project should officially announce her death, it would give the Avatar Project grounds for deniability and enable her to go deep under cover. Incidentally, it would not be necessary to force Alex to leave Oasis. Alexander calmly assumed his devotion, at his father's insistence, focused on coming to terms with the fact that he was originally a she. 

Xander's condition was not permanent, and Andrea inadvertently allowed the authorities to discover that sexual polymorphism was a trait she and Xander had in common. Andrea, who had herself experienced dual embodiment for masculine and feminine development, took Alex under her wing, accepting the theory proposed by their father and initiating the boy in the mysteries of being a girl. At the same time, she found herself convinced that her twin had somehow become a part of her brother--that her brother had truly become her twin. Her experience with her mother's death inspired this belief, and at the same time kept her from voicing it aloud, even to Alex. Andrea was not able to protect all of her secrets. She unintentionally revealed that she possessed the ability to shift sexes at will while trying to cover for one of Xander's untimely transitions. This discovery was seen as evidence that the decision to pair the two of them was prophetic. Xander had been promised to Alex before the two had been born, being members of the imperial line and of an age, such an engagement was typical. Andrea, unfortunately, had not been prepared for such a relationship being forced on her, but considering the devotion she had been ordered to pursue, it was a blessing in disguise.  It also brought her, as the consort of the "rightful" heir to the Emperor, into intimate contact with the Empress, "Cinder" and her compliment, "Coal", the reincarnations of Ashana, and the reincarnations of the Imperial Regent Ashara, "Ember" and "Ash". 

Andrea, Xander, Cinder and Ember were all beginning their devotions to the Goddess, whom they all resembled perfectly. Possession of compliments, or a consort, spared the three girls a degree of embarrassment they were all grateful for. Unfortunately, or fortunately, Alex and Andrea had reached the age of initiation and went into heat. The two were forced to confront their avon heritage together. Andrea's initiative forced Andrea and Alex to present themselves as possible split twins. In spite of Andrea's precocious sexuality, and the fact that Alex had been a boy for sixteen years, they were both still virgin and struggled to make sense of the irresistible sexual magnetism between them. Andrea's cover did not allow her to deny Alex the comforts and intimacy that had existed between Andrea and the original Alex. Their initiation literally demanded as much as and more intimate contact than the two girls ever dared to explore. Andrea also struggled to keep her head as her exposure to Alex opened door after door in her own mind, awakening a depth of power in her to rivaled his. 

Being an Ideal proved to be much harder on Xander, who had grown up as a boy and tended to think of herself as a boy--to the relief of those who opposed the rule of an Empress. Andrea set aside her own apprehensions to tend to Xander's, oblivious to the fact that her mate was so busy trying to prove his manhood he was damning her in the process. Andrea found herself in close company with two intimate friends of Alex's, who had experienced a similar awakening, after witnessing Alex's transformation. Andrea also found herself spending some time with Cinder, who was trying to integrate the memories imparted to her by her mother's death. Andrea dared not confide her own experience with her mother's death, but Cinder's experience had been equally traumatic, and simply listening to the other girl confiding her thoughts on the matter were helping her come to terms with the consequences of that dark day. 

Cinder caught on to the scheme her own compliment had cooked up to steal Andrea's favor and tried to stop it, but she was too late. At best, she only delayed the inevitable--and assured that it would come out even worse for Andrea. Her intervention did accomplish something valuable. Xander and Andrea were able to reach an understanding that enabled them to achieve a kind of unity. The two were able to translate in cooperation into avon forms, an extraordinary accomplishment difficult even for compliments like Ash and Ember or Cinder and Coal. The rites and rituals of initiation triggered the mutual conversion, a transition from being male and female compliments (due to the effects of being twins in heat) to avon compliments. This conversion was not what it appeared to be, confirmation of a neutral natal paring, but rather a preface to a fusion. Av had simply discovered and accessed her latent avon form, and used it to pull her estranged parts together in two major steps, psychological and then physical. As a consequence, Alex and Andrea were caught in a positive feedback loop, stimulating depths within each other that only decades of training and discipline might otherwise have tapped. As they swiftly matured, they reached a critical stage at which they were perfectly equal, and yet strangely in phase. 

Alex and Andrea faced an unexpected ordeal together. They had been taught that, given their unusual relationship, they might be at risk of a fatal fusion, and they had been taught how to abort it. In the moment when they thought they were experiencing a fatal fusion, they each attempted to shift out of avon embrace into male-female embrace, but both turned instinctively toward the female form and fused into one. This fusion had been silently triggered by the death of the original Alex, to unite the three in one and trigger a self conception akin to avon rebirth. It also put Alexandrea into a position to rediscover herself, to relive her origin as her own mother--or to literally travel back to the moment of her conception and become her own mother. She would never be sure exactly which was the case. Alex and Andrea's union was interpreted to be confirmation that the twins had been complimentary aspects of a single individual, and her female embodiment simply a sign that she was accepted by the Goddess as an embodiment of the Ideal. Usually, this only occurred with the direct descendants of the Dragon and Phoenix houses, but occasionally other descendants of the imperial line were so favored. 

Andrea had already met the heirs apparent to the twin pillars, having in fact been mistaken for one of them during her first tour of the palace. The heirs had taken an interest in her, and befriended her during her initiation. Now she would be living with them, and integrating into the Imperial Household. She had achieved her first objective, getting into position. The question was, could she stay in position? 

Book Option - Proposed 02/05/01 - End Main Thread


Other Impressions
Notes drawn from: 	Naked Goddess 00-0000

The following notes detail the events in the evolution of embodiments of Av. On initial examination, the material appears to provide useful definition for the daughter triads of Ashana and Ashara. What is presented was initially separated into two generations, however, when taken as the details of two separate triads living at the same time, most of the material remains solvent. Each triad seems to experience a path of unification, which presents the possibility of the singularity of all three triads coming together and passing as one through the eye of paradox. Such a possibility needs to be identified at the project's inception. It would significantly effect the course of all events. 

	Additional notes to be drawn from: 	Master Content 1.doc, Master Content 2.doc

The Queen of Aeryn
A girl, unwittingly living two lives, confronted in herself a destiny she would not dream of asking for, but which she could not deny even if she dared. Her dual existence was a critical test of her soul, and the fate of creation hung in the balance unaware of the significance of the twins' struggle--most, unaware of the struggle itself. On one hand, she was born the Heir to the Aegis, an intergalactic empire, and the combined houses of the Dragon and Phoenix Goddesses. On the other hand, she was born the daughter of the Phoenix in Exile, a woman stripped of her Royalty and Nobility and reduced to Animality. Like her mother, her only possessions were her body and mind, her only resources were her spirit and her soul. Unlike her mother, she had a hope of earning a name which would allow her to possess status, property and human rights. Her opportunity came at a young age, when the Heir fell to a strange sickness on her naming day. 

The naked girl had been mistaken for the Heir during the preparations for the ceremony, and while the mistake had been corrected before the ceremony itself she had still been in the custody of the Imperial House. She was employed on the spot as a stand in for the stricken Heir. The two girls were raised together, sharing the same education if not the same precedence or respect. Their friendship and rivalry grew hand in hand. The naked girl was always grateful for the position she had been given, concerned for the strange fits and nightmares that seized and tormented her one friend, and struggled to forgive the many abuses that same friend made of her position. 

To her disappointment, the naked girl was summarily dismissed after seven years when the Heir apparently recovered fully from her strange ailment. She returned to her family, blessed with the skills and education to make a powerful name for herself, and stunned to discover the wealth of ability she could master under the combined tutelage of her mother, her twin aunts and uncle (only three years her seniors), and her mother's twin mates (the fathers of her younger brothers and sisters). 

For two years she devoted herself to mastering the many arts held by her family, and then she fell victim to yet another attack against the Heir. Once again, this time plagued with her own fits and nightmares, she was taken in by the Imperial House, mistaken entirely for the girl she had been trained to impersonate--whom, due to her new ailment, she now portrayed with unwitting and uncanny perfection. The Heir had vanished the night before the assault on her double--a habit begun in childhood--and had not returned. The training she had begun under the influence of her personal demon had reached a stage that had frightened the girl out of her mind and sent her fleeing from those she loved and respected. Discovering that she had developed a fatal touch, she had fled from the discovery, unwittingly leaving her childhood friend to the assault that had been mounted to capture her. The naked girl had in her own way been far more lethal, slaying her assailants and escaping capture. Aside from the two girls, only their Goddesses knew the truth of their switch. 

The Heir was taken in by Ash and Ember, who helped her gain control of her deadly talent and invested her in the identity of her twin. It was clear that a deadly and hidden enemy was corrupting the Empire from within, they charged the girl with a mission to find and expel the corruption. To help her, they presented her as the New Scion of the Phoenix House. It was Ember's right to reestablish her House, she was a Goddess after all, and bearing a new mantle of Royalty and Nobility, the Heir could enter Court and seek out the demons that had infiltrated it. Equally tainted, and trained in the polarized arts of their native Houses, the two girls found their friendship and rivalry aroused into a chaotic love-hate magnetism. Caught in the reversal of their plot, the demons strove desperately to turn the girls against each other. Confounded by their own feelings, the two fell easily into the trap. 

Through careful manipulation, it became known to all that the two were in fact twins of some sort, and their rank and titles were suspended as it became clear that the two held equal, and technically exclusive, claim to the combined mantle. As with their parents, the contest became personal. Not only did they want to challenge each other, uncertain entirely of their own motivations, they were required to do so or quit claim and be dispossessed. No one was going to allow the Dragon and Phoenix Houses to divide in war again. The two were loosed on a sacred dueling ground, in fact an island long contested between the two houses, to fight it out. They were not alone, however. 

The demons had no intention of allowing a victor to emerge which they could not control. They had a mission to fulfill, and this was their last chance to accomplish it. Events showed them the way to accomplish their goal. The Heir, having the ability to assume a dragon form, was beyond them, but by choosing that form, it was clear that her appetite had taken control of her, and that the contest would end in a Consuming Embrace. To win, they merely had to poison the Phoenix. The Diune resulting from that fatal union would possess a mind derived from their combined psyches, and the ground work for a properly tainted mind was already laid. The key was simply to finish breaking the Phoenix. They tried, but failed as the two became consumed by their passion, using each other to remove the obstacles between them before meeting in that final, fatal embrace. 

In that union, they faced the truth, the naked truth. They awoke from destruction in the minds of their parents. The Naked Goddess was finally awake. Carefully, she confronted herself and the events of her awakening. 


The Queen of Athyn
The darkest days of the Aegis came when the Dragon House was set against the Phoenix House. An odd consequence of the evolution of the two houses rendered Dragons and Phoenixes spiritually polarized. Dragons, driven by an insane attraction to and appetite for Phoenixes, were literally devouring the best and brightest of the Phoenix House. Both Houses possessed a means to spiritually adopt outsiders. Dragons accomplished this traditionally through Blooding while Phoenixes accomplished it through Communion. Between Houses there was, by way of naturally complimentary aspects of the two rites, the prospect of a Communion Blooding, or Communion Embrace possible for a Dragon and Phoenix of opposite sexes. The same rite, performed between individuals of the same sex was a deadly variation forbidden from the moment of the first occurrence. In time, the reason was forgotten and the practice reemerged suddenly on a broad front when a notable exception was revealed to Dragons in secrecy. The Consuming Embrace was fatal to both Dragon and Phoenix, from which a new and unique individual emerged as a duality similar to the traditional Communion Embrace which once safely mated a Dragon to a Phoenix. Aghast at the initial devastation of the Consuming Embrace, the Phoenix House quickly sought to defend itself from this deadly perversion of a peaceful and mutually beneficial tradition and declared war, demanding the unconditional termination of the new practice. No one could prove where the impetus for the practice of the deadly variation of the Communion Embrace originated, but it was clear that it had been proposed to individuals within the Dragon House, and that the unique gifts of a Dragon made it possible for a Dragon to survive the experience at one remove. For the Phoenix, though technically there were two ways in which the he or she survived the experience, all the memories, the experience, the essence of that life were consumed and impossible for the individual to recover in his or her surviving incarnation. A Phoenix was either forced to start over from a clean slate or else continue living with the loss of his or her personal legacy. 

While the two houses were at war, in the very heart of the Aegis, the scions of those two houses, unacquainted after generations of conflict, met and fell in love, recognizing in each other a destiny aching to be fulfilled. The current Phoenix Daughter, and heir to the Phoenix House grew up isolated from the conflict. Her mother placed her in the care of her Goddess, Ember, who raised her as her own daughter and helped her realize her full phoenix potential. Her younger siblings joined her during her fourteenth year, twin girls who were in fact daughter selves of the Twin Goddesses and a boy who was the son of the Dragon Lord--conceived under his mantle as the Emperor to serve as the heir apparent. The birth of that boy fulfilled the legal and traditional requirements which were used as an excuse to get the warring houses into bed together and hopefully warm up to each other again. The Court's proposal and the Emperor's decree were obediently submitted to by the Phoenix Lord, but if anything tensions between the two houses increased as a result. The boy's arrival in the Goddess's home precipitated the formation of a joint household compromised by the Goddess Ash and her charges, the Dragon Heir and his twin companions--believed to be a diune born of a Consuming Embrace, but in fact the male aspects of the Twin Goddesses' daughter-selves born fifteen years prior and only recently discovered in the wild and adopted into their present stations as companions and body guards to the Dragon Heir. The Dragon and Phoenix Heirs, unaware of the quarrel between their houses, befriended each other in the protected, academic and athletic environments of the athenaeum and the arena. The intimate friendship became true love over the next couple of years. Their sixteenth year was spent in anticipation of attaining adulthood, the eternal age of seventeen which their kind could expect, when the two could legally pursue marriage. Unfortunately, the war finally intruded into their paradise. Confident in each other, they sought to find answers and solutions, to promote peace between their Houses. At first they had only limited success. If not for who they were, they could have pursued the traditional union and perhaps helped alleviate the conflict, but through assassinations, staged during the celebration of attaining their seventeenth year, each assumed the mantle of their respective House amidst cries for vengeance from their people. 

The combined tragedies made the young Dragon and Phoenix Lords desperately unwilling enemies. Realizing that their houses had been maneuvered into a mortal conflict, and that the only possible avenues to a peaceful resolution had been sabotaged to trigger a chain reaction that would plummet the Aegis into chaos, internal warfare that would cripple the Central Empire, they took it into their hands to fight and conclude their Houses' war on a personal level. Taking the lives and destinies of their Houses into their hands, they sued for a Duel when they wished they could sue for marriage. Acting as the ultimate champions of their houses, and knowing the relative strengths of their Houses and themselves and the nature of the threat that still remained, they both understood what must happen. In order to preserve the integrity of the Empire, and incidentally attain the only chance they would have to consummate their love, the House of the Phoenix had to fall. Following one night of happiness, a ritual surrender of her mantle, she would be stripped and then exiled. As nothing more than an animal, she would have to walk away from her love, for the only other option was death, the endless legacy of war had cemented the precedent. While her house was weak, despite the prestige and influence that had made it the chosen pawn of their enemies, no one expected the Phoenix to fall in single combat. So great was her skill, she disguised her forfeit perfectly as simple misfortune. To all eyes, she had done her best but the fates had not been with her. By maintaining her honor, up to the moment she forfeited it to her beloved nemesis, her people could not help but obey her final command. Rather than allow her people to be devoured by the Dragon House, she sacrificed herself, dissolving the Phoenix House and forfeiting its mantle to the Dragon Scion. Her people had the freedom to seek refuge in any House from the certain doom of the Consuming Embrace, an appetite among Dragons too few of them had the will to resist and which had devastated the Phoenix House in a handful of generations. The offspring of those fatal embraces retained the Dragon-Phoenix mantle, in a subordinate House of the Dragon House, while the last surviving Phoenixes lived as honored exiles in every House save for the dominant Dragon House. The appetites of the Dragons would be sated by the unfortunate individuals born as true Phoenixes within the Dragon-Phoenix House.  Her honor was the price paid to preserve the lives and honor of all who had served her and her House. 

Her surrender to her beloved was another paradoxical event. Their union proved to be a spiritual as well as physical intercourse. The long forgotten fears rose up too late to save them from a consuming revelation. Unknown to them, there was a variation of the Consuming Embrace which did not require the traditional actions of the Communion Blooding. Through physical, mental and spiritual intercourse, a similar union between an uncomplimented Dragon and Phoenix. The two became one, fused into an eternal moment of self conception, an unexpected, if inescapable consequence of the boy assuming his female guise to fully explore the bounds of their love in their sole liaison. The specific arts of their patron deities had by this point polarized them spiritually, making them true embodiments of the dragon and phoenix of the ancient legend of creation. In union, they awakened to a truth, tested and absolute. In a timeless instant, the Dragon and the Phoenix were no more, in their place, embodying the understanding of her unity and duality, lay the Naked Goddess. In their minds resonated not only the combined memories of the lives they had lived apart, but silent memories of the lives they had just conceived. Their shock was interrupted by the intrusion of the Twin Goddesses, whom the Naked Goddess recognized at once. Her sisters, her soul mates, daughter/sister selves born of the same conception, they confronted the duality, confirming her and reminding her of the cruel limits of the moment. The Naked Goddess would be divided from herself, as painful a separation as what the lovers she had been had faced, unaware that destiny had spared them in a fashion. The Naked Goddess confronted herself, exploring herself in awe and apprehension in the meager hours remaining. In the morning, she would separate, on one hand assuming the mantle of the combined house of Dragon and Phoenix, and on the other entering exile as naked as her namesake. On either hand, she was bearing a newly conceived daughter, her living origin, a child she unconsciously remembered being. Under the guidance of the Twin Goddesses, the divided goddess fully suppressed the silent memories of a life not yet lived from her present perspective. In order for that life to unfold, she had to place the split child's destiny into her own hands. The future would pit the child against herself, drive her to destroy herself, but in turn she would discover the truth inherent in her and emerge from the embrace of oblivion to be her own mother, consciously living a two fold life--an awakening not unlike any other daughter self's, if more profound than any other. The first step in that life would be a decision, or rather an action that would set her upon two wildly different paths. Paths that would distinguish her from herself and divide her daughters into angelic and demonic avatars. The final step would be witnessing the death of those daughters in a fatal embrace and awakening to the truth--realizing that she is and always was the Naked Goddess. 

Evolving Impressions
The Apprehension of the Naked Goddess. The realization of a dream involves the weaving of a tapestry of chaos, order and paradox into a dynamic whole. As can be expected, the resolution of the three archetypes of structure into reality featured moments of unbridled chaos, raw paradox and perfect order. Some of the most significant events of all involved the conjunction of two or all three of these paradigms. The most unstable, and dangerous of the three was always paradox, for paradox often unmasked the naked absolute, the presence of the One, the Naked Goddess, the Singularity. The arrival of humanity, a race similar to the native avon though divided into separate male and female sexes, was one such instance. 

An incarnation of the Naked Goddess, born in another dominion, was a member of a fleet of colony ships that was lost in a translation accident. By virtue of her presence, and valiant efforts to return the fleet to the shores of reality, the expedition was brought into the domain of the Naked Goddess Herself. The ships emerged near enough to the Ao System to find their way to the home of the avon race. The battered expedition limped to Aeirn and humanity was welcomed as the Second People, and due to similarities as frightening as the differences Human and Avon became the Father and Mother Races of a Third People stimulating the growth of a new and dynamic culture that would blend magic and technology through the arts of psionics and spread the Three Races among the stars. 

Conflict between Human and Avon cost the Three Races much of the original Father and Mother cultures, though virtually all aspects of those cultures were preserved in certain spheres and institutions. The most prevalent culture was the hybrid Daughter Culture evolved as the Three Races stabilized and integrated harmoniously. As profound as the arrival of the Father Race was, it was not the most startling or provocative manifestation of Paradox. Like the arrival of the Father Race, the most profound manifestation of Paradox involved the Naked Goddess personally. 

The opening of the Eye of Paradox, an evolution of Divine Consequence, resulted from a direct assault on Her person in the midst of a war. Fortunately, She was divided into male and female incarnations, each of which possessed a son- or daughter-self. Her death opened the rift and His death bound it, creating what would be known as the Eye of Paradox. 

From the Eye of Paradox, twin goddesses emerged, Ash, the All-Inclusive, the Dragon Goddess, and Ember, the All-Exclusive, the Phoenix Goddess. The surviving Son and Daughter of the Naked Goddess were adopted separately, their relation to each other and the One known only to the Twin Goddesses. The Son was established as the Scion of the Dragon House, the Daughter as the Scion of the Phoenix House. Through the blood of their native ancestors, the boy and girl founded the lines of direct descent which made them in all their following incarnations the pillars of those two great houses. Many of their instinctive gifts and abilities were attributed to be gifts from the patron deities of the two houses. 

Boy and girl each possessed an uncanny, intuitive grasp of the arts of mind, body and spirit. Their avon blood granted them the gift of rebirth and the ability to assume the opposite sex with impunity. Their resemblance was proven identical when girl and boy adopted the other's natural sex, which many saw as the decisive reason they were chosen by the twin goddesses. Most of the quirks of avon blood were well known to the Daughter Race, and reasonably well noted by the surviving populations of the Mother and Father Race (also known as the First and Second People of Aeirn). Among the awesome advantages of the Daughter Race, there were a few profound disadvantages of note, which figured in the suspicions and speculation regarding the efforts of the Twin Goddesses to bar intimacy between their Scions in avon form. For all the rumors, there was never a way to confirm them, save in the most drastic way, for the origins of the two were long lost to memory. In time, all speculation drifted deep into the subconscious of all concerned. 

Other dieties emerged from the Eye of Paradox, many of whom sought out individuals with the immortal blood of the reclusive and dwindling native people, to serve as the pillars of their own houses. The gradual influx of gods and goddesses, combined with the hybrid arts of the First and Second Peoples, resulted in the swift expansion of an intergalactic empire that expanded in two waves, a chaotic wave of exiles, expatriots, fanatics and rebels known as the Exodus and a relentless, dynamic and thriving expansion of the empire's Aegis. The division was not nearly as clean and clear as that implies. The Exodus Empires resisted the Houses of the Aegis, and often the growth of the Aegis provoked wars, but the Exodus itself had for its most common purpose a strategic withdrawal to frontier territories explicitly to cultivate the resources necessary to mount attacks on the Aegis itself. The Exodus Empires each sought, and hence competed with each other over, the privilege of conquering the Aegis and seizing the Eye of Paradox, and control over the Gates of Paradox. It often seemed as if there were a state of total, endless war, initiated against the Aegis by one or more of the Exodus Empires. Thus, while a peaceful civilization, the Aegis was exceptionally adept in the arts of war, a culture slow to initiate conflict (typically unintentionally provoking strife) and quick to respond to hostility and aggression. 


Av's Childhood. Av was a unique child born of extraordinary circumstances. Her unusual conception and uncanny inception made her an enigma to herself and others. 

Av's Devotions. As the heir apparent, she was limited in her options. No one really wanted her to claim her mantle, since it would mean the loss of two Emperors, but she had to remain ready to take up that mantle at a moment's notice. As an image of the Goddess, however, she did possess some other prospects. The Heir was human by birth and avon by ancestry, like herself, and like herself, had not managed to manifest a compliment of himself. As the children of the God and Goddess were all genetically identical, and could safely breed, though in most cased they were not allowed to, a sister of the Emperor was the perfect courtesan, or concubine. In addition, she would be the ideal body guard in the final defense of the Emperor in the privacy and vulnerability of the bed. 

Av had always had a crush on her older brother, and welcomed the prospect whole-heartedly. What she did not care for, however, was the training she would have to endure to become a courtesan. The training of an Ideal, with an apprenticeship as an Ideal. She did not care to give herself to anyone who asked, unreservedly. She managed to postpone that part of her education for a while, but eventually she confronted her initiation. During her apprenticeship, shortly before she would present herself to the Heir, she was targeted for use in a coup attempt. She was the one outstanding vulnerability in the Imperial House, and no one suspected the attack that could be made through her. 

Av's Exile. Av was assaulted and raped when she was seventeen by an entity evolved into pure thought. It possessed her body and banished her within the shadows of its own mind. Av was being used as a pawn in a coup attempt none would ever suspect. She awoke in a shifting and nightmarish world in a body quite alien to her. Unable to alter the body-prison she had been confined to, she escaped from the dreamscape of her captor in an entirely unprecedented way. She discovered a fault between that dream world and what seemed to be a real world alien to her own experience. In this new world, she stumbled onto a way to restore her body. Her exile in male form had created a conflict for her. As much as she wanted to be herself again, she would miss not being male, or at least not embodying some of the qualities she had discovered within herself. She had known that it was possible in her native world for a person to acquire the ability to assume the form of the opposite sex, and that there were those among humans and avon that possessed a unique sex that somehow incorporated male and female at the same time. She had never been exposed to such individuals or the details of their anatomy, unfortunately, but with the resources to design and create any kind of body she wanted at her disposal, she felt sure she would invent something that she would feel comfortable living with--something truly unique. 

Av had no idea that she was in fact creating the body that would father the entire avon race. 

Soon after, she was presented another opportunity to escape from that world into her own sphere. She arrived back in her native sphere in what proved to be the almost forgotten past. The dreamscape and the domain she had found deeper within the mind of her adversary, whom she had finally escaped from, had been a strange and slightly distorted reflection of the reality she had been born and lived in, and which she had unwittingly created in the eternal moment of conception. 

Av's Paradox. Originally, the embodiments of Av's inner duality had been the dragon and the phoenix, each of which had reproduced through the transformation of others. Av, in her custom designed body, encountered her soul-phoenix and imprinted it with her own altered humanity as a consequence of making a meal of the bird she had caught hunting in the wilds of the strange world she had just entered. The phoenix resurrected in Av's image and confronted the strange being it had chosen to adopt as a partner. Like the phoenix, Av's presence had attracted another. The dragon had been stalking Av, pausing in its own hunt to observe as the ever elusive phoenix fell to her arrow. It had been surprised, as much as the phoenix, when she had not been altered by consuming the flesh of the phoenix. In the past, the dragon had learned not to pursue those changed by the phoenix. Other dragons had, and had become bound to and altered by the phoenix touched morsel. Inevitably, those mated pairs adopted and integrated themselves into the human populations that the dragons had been cultivating on their nesting worlds. Humans were among the most favored mortals cultivated to help propagate the kind. Even the phoenixes favored humans highly. Since this strange human had not been altered, the dragon resumed his hunt. 

The humans of that world were a fractious bunch, and the region in which his prey traveled was in turmoil. The phoenix remained with her chosen partner, in spite of the fact that she had not been changed, acting as her guide and interpreter. Many of the quickened were involved in the present conflict, which made the world feel tight and stressed. When the dragon finally closed in for the kill, there was a mind numbing fog of raw power in the air, and thus, it did not realize in time that the phoenix had acted at the last second to preserve the life of its partner. The two complimented each other perfectly, and the dragon and phoenix emerged from that blooding as twin avon goddesses. Unfortunately, the world itself had been torn as the consummation of Av's duality resonated in the mind of the naked goddess and exposing her to a raw manifestation of the paradox of her involvement in her own initiation. 

Av was torn in two, a male half and a female half. The male half entered the rapidly growing rift, risking himself to provide his "true" self with a perception of the impossibility that was threatening to unravel the very universe. The female Av stood upon the threshold and struggled for all she was worth to keep the world from shattering around her. The Two, who were now twins of her avon form, supported her effort, realizing in the process who she was--and who he was in turn. Av became the foundation of the Eye of Paradox, and in time she was regarded as the Goddess, while her male embodiment, frozen in the outer threshold, was regarded as the God. The Twin Goddesses founded the Dragon and Phoenix Houses, whom they themselves would remain the heads of as the embodiments of the God and the Goddess. 

Av's Conception, Inception and Birth. Av was conceived in the physical, mental, and spiritual union of the female aspects of the evolved embodiments of her own inner duality. Her "parents" were consumed in the unexpected fusion of perfect interface, and Av was conceived in the understanding of their unity and duality. It had not occurred to her "parents" that their female bodies left them as naked and vulnerable to fusion as their original avon bodies would have. The original avon bodies that Av's "parents" had possessed had been the first duplicates of the body Av created for herself during her exile. Because they had been female during their embrace, the ember kindled from their ashes was an unprotected human embryo. To preserve her own existence, Av unconsciously manifested a new body around the fertilized egg, projecting her consciousness into that newly created copy of her original form from her prison stasis in the Eye of Paradox. For her conscious mind, it was as if she had jumped from the closing of the rift into the bed where her "parents" had died. The minds of her "parents" had descended upon their daughter selves, transforming them into girls, as the male half of their nature still survived. This occurrence did not go unnoticed, and the new danger of fusion was reported to all. 

Av's Quandary. Av quickly realized where she was, and reletivistically, who she had become. She had become her own mother. Her daughter, the person she had been, was growing in her womb, and would be the heir apparent to the Avon Empire. Av was still seventeen, in her own reckoning, and she had possessed an avon body for too short a time to achieve self conception. She was not surprised when she did not age at all until her final pregnancy, when she conceived herself at last. She hardly dared to wonder why she had conceived of herself as triplets, however. Her life was paradoxical, and the mystery simply continued to grow deeper. 

In spite of playing the most pivotal role in her own childhood, she discovered that fate and free will were perfectly married, and gradually accepted that she could not alter her own past, intentionally or unintentionally. What had not been said, could not be said. What had been done, could not be undone. Simply obeying her own instincts, intuition and intellect, her own choices confirmed what she deduced had to happen. Her daughter grew up as the imperial heir's younger sister, like him safely removed from the court or over consciousness of their destined status. She mastered the disciplines she was required to, and acquired the ones she desired and which she expected to be denied, never realizing the role she was being prepared for. 

When the war came, Av figured out at last how her "mother" had become involved in the military. Av, in her new incarnation, had been taken as a mate by the surviving aspects of her "parents" but she had not gained the status of the two females she had replaced. Her present status was that of concubine, but her abilities and nature marked her as an avatar. Most assumed that she had been created by the Goddess to preserve the life of the heir apparent, and so she also had the dubious distinction of being an "artifact". The military simply requisitioned her. 

Av was forced to send her children to the Goddess; though born of Av's body, they were regarded as the Goddess's grandchildren, and she in turn as their true patron. Av's younger self was finally confronted with her fate. 


Notes: Chapter 01
In the opening chapter, the twin avatar is introduced. Both girls bear the face-name of Av, which means "change" or "cinder" in the Daughter Tongue, derived from ancient meanings of "beginning and end, resurrection, rebirth, daughter, eternal or eternity" in the Mother Tongue, depending on inflection and usage. The two are distinguished by the manner in which they may properly be addressed. For one, being unnamed, she may only be addressed formally as Avon, that is by the name of her race, the Daughter Race. Avon means "child of change" or "naked daughter" due in part to the two most common meanings of "on" and of course the intent of the speaker. Ironically, the simplest formal address proper for addressing her counterpart, Av An, sounds identical to the extraordinarily common Avon. The syllabic An denotes the status of Heir, meaning "the recipient of, or to receive (or, incidentally, female, vagina, receptacle)" the more notorious connotations applicable only in context where the subject (or object as may be) is clearly understood. Av An's full address would be Av Anashara, denoting her status as the Heir of the Dragon House, and her common name Ava, as most functional titles begin with the Na denoting devotion to an art. Bearing this in mind, the girls will be consistently identified in the body of the narration as Av and Ava, regardless of how they are addressed or indicated in dialogue. 

Av emerges from the wild and enters the Aegis to begin her suit of a name. Clearly, she is a naked daughter, and her resemblance to Ava causes many who see her to react in shock or outrage at what first appears to be the Heir denouncing her own station in life. The few who knew of Av's existence view her emergence as a deliberate insult to Ava for the way Av had been used and then cast back out into the wild. Once her destination, and by extension her intent, is revealed, the observers lose all interest in her. Av visits the temple of the Naked Goddess, and it becomes clear that her silence is unnatural. Once language is restored to her, she makes her suit and begins her testing. 

Ava, in the very heart of the Aegis, is cornered in an atrium by an overly amorous young man, an heir to one of the royal houses of the empire. Disturbed by private thoughts, Ava absently accepts his proposal, a suit for the kind of liaison between the elite that strengthened the ties between houses.  To her surprise, his intentions are more immediate than she assumed. Technically, it was not rape, since she had consented, but in every other regard he tried to rape her, and the dark thoughts she entertained gained new, and terrifying fuel. Attempting to stop his assault, something inside her awakens, grappling with the boy's soul as she grappled with him in the flesh. With a shuddering gasp, the boy disintegrates at her touch, crumbling to fine dust blown away by the tempest of wind her frightened mind whipped up around them. 


Notes: Chapter 02
Ava flees from the scene of the murder in terror. In the shadows, the ones who set the boy upon her shake off their surprise and organize a party to pursue her. As is her habit, she sheds her mantle and adopts the wrap of a commoner as she flees the palace. In spite of her preoccupation, she senses that she is being followed and resolves to lose what she assumes to be a detachment of her own House Guard. After what she had done, she did not wish her mother's protection, fearing what might happen if they attempted to detain her. Not knowing what she had done, or how, she dared not risk any confrontations. Royal heirs were the toughest individuals shy of gods, and that boy had not had a chance against her. The question was, how could she shake them off. Well ahead of her shadows, she glimpsed something they hopefully could not, a familiar form she had not seen in years. 

Av retires from her first day of testing in a positive mood. She takes herself to a public bath to relax and unwind from the day's tension. After a few moments, she is joined by another young woman. To her shock, the woman reveals she is Ava. Ava appears troubled, but she joins her childhood friend in the bath, engaging her in small talk for a bit. They had been very close for the seven years they had been bound together, and there had been a lot of friction. The time away from each other helped sooth the injuries they had inflicted on each other. Finally, Ava turns to Av and makes a request. Without explaining fully, Ava tells Av that she has a personal problem she must take care of urgently. She dares not let her family know the nature of her errand, but her absence would surely be noticed. Ava begs Av to trade places with her. Av expresses her uncertainty. She had been employed as Ava's double, and could certainly manage it still, but if she were caught she would be executed. Ava assures her that, as the Heir, she had the authority to make her own contracts and grant Av the necessary commission. More, in the event that Ava could not resolve her problem and return, Av could take her place permanently. As long as she was never discovered, she would _be_ Ava, and if discovered, she would be covered by her contract and commission. Av consents, instructing Ava in the few details she would need to take over her life as a naked daughter, turning over the letters of instruction and introduction from her mother which would entitle Av, now Ava, to aid from the Phoenix Goddess, the patron of her former house. Ava is stunned to learn at last the origins of her nameless substitute. Ava warns Av that she was being kept under observation, and that she would be followed--that she needed to be followed--on her return to the palace in Ava's place. Av begs her to resolve her problem quickly, urging her to seek the help of her goddess, and departs. Ava sags in relief, wishing the girl well. Who would have believed that her whipping girl had in actuality been the Phoenix Heir.

Av, clothed in Ava's wrap, made her erratic way back to the palace. She knew the secret ways in and out, the benefits of a childhood in the palace, and headed towards the sea cliffs. Using the skills she mastered under her family's tutelage, she marked her shadows, confirming the presence of a detachment of the Dragon House Guard. She reached the cliffs in time to watch the sun set, and then made her way down to the beach. From there, she could sneak back into the palace and into a role she had thought she would never experience again. Alone on the beach, the last thing she would ever have expected happened. The guard, whom she assumed to be there to protect her, finally came forward to confront her and to her utter shock attacked her without warning. She could hardly believe she was about to be raped by the very men who were pledged to protect her, well protect Ava, but they had addressed her as Ava before attacking. 










Andrea's waking world was a construct imposed on her unconscious mind to trap the focus of her soul, her true identity, and force her to confront the enigma called the Point Paradox. This construct had mapped itself to a part of her inner cosmology, protected from her own creation by idiomatic compromise, but the world she lived in was haunted by the embodiments of her dreams, some of which were powerful enough to invade the quarantined realm of her waking world, and the death of her twin was only the first instance of the dream confronting the dreamer. 


An avon noble had been stricken with madness--she seemed quite literally to be possessed--and gone on a killing spree. The authorities had her in custody, but she had diplomatic immunity. The ASIA needed a telepath to get into her head at once and diagnose--and if possible, treat--her insanity before the avon establishment discovered she was being illegally detained by their human allies. Andrea was the only Avatar they had who was familiar enough with the avon mind, having been bound to her mother's since birth, to properly assess her sanity. Andrea had no way of knowing that this was part of a plot to entrap and "convert" her. 


Vael was an exceptional individual, her personal achievements far overshadowing her birth mantle. Vael was in many ways Av's equal, having been trained from birth to function in human and avon modes. Vael was also devoted to the God, the power that rivaled and complimented that of the Goddess, like Her, embodying the Absolute. Vael had been conceived in the Sphere of Paradox, the impossible realm bounded by the Gates of Paradox, which the God and Goddess held in balance, preventing the Sphere of Creation from being devoured. Vael was one of those who knew that Av had been conceived and born, and her obsession with finding her had made Vael vulnerable to the manner in which she had been abused. Av entered Vael's mind, and discovered that there was another mind within her, that had been waiting for her. Av was helpless as the thing swallowed her naked mind and began to torture her. In her own mind, the mind of her mother awoke, recognizing the thing that was attacking Av. It was him. The one who had tried to devour her. She pushed her daughter down the demon-god's throat, into the very depths where Vael's mind had been imprisoned. Av found herself guided through the nightmare she was trapped in, to a crack that led to another world. As she awoke in that strange world, she realized two things. She had been changed by what the demon had done to her, and she was now in a separate Sphere. The world within Vael was a recreation of the world she came from, but in this world, she had been born among avon, and she was revered as the Goddess Incarnate. Worse, the war that had been raging in her world raged in this world as well. The demon that had slain her mother was stalking her in this world, that is, the her native to this world. 

Av had drawn the demon's attention to herself before realizing all of this, unfortunately. The demon, like many others, including her counterpart, believed that Av was the Goddess, drawn out of the Eye of Paradox to fight the demon. Av remembered all too well what the thing had done to her mother, and feared and desired a confrontation with him intensely. Av did not know how to fight the thing, however, and consulted with her counterpart, and the archives at her disposal, to understand why people could think she was the Goddess. Once she understood the concept, she set out to track down Vael, who her research had revealed had to be the true Goddess. Av had entered this world by descending into Vael. She eventually confronted Vael, who had sought out her own double, and who believed she had come to this Sphere by way of the Sphere of Paradox. While what Vael believed was possible, it was not accurate. Vael did not remember how she got here, but Av did. Av suspected Vael could never be convinced that this world existed in her mind, so she tricked her. Av recruited Vael, being careful to discriminate between the native and the ruling Vael, allowing her to assume that Av was the Goddess, and that she had brought Vael to this world to help her battle the demon. Av explained that the demon was trying to compromise her, to force her into using her full power against it, which would compromise the bindings on the Eye of Paradox, whereby the demon's true goal, destroying the Sphere, would be achieved. He could not hurt her, she lied, but he could destroy everyone else unless a champion were empowered with the means to defeat him. Vael, as an outsider, and a master of the paradoxical arts, was that champion. The demon could not defeat Vael, she promised, and Vael was the only one who could defeat the demon. 

Unfortunately, the demon had gotten to Av's counterpart, and corrupted her, as he had attempted to corrupt Av. The demon's intention was to force the Goddess to battle herself, in the belief that the native Av was a daughter incarnation of Av, the actual Goddess. The native Av, possessed by the demon, confronted Av in her adopted disguise, as a mere Ideal, and attacked her. Av did not believe the demon's plan could work, since she was convinced that she was not the Goddess, but she was not about to kill, or be killed by, herself. Av had learned some of the demon's tricks, however, from his analog in her world. Instead of fighting, she jumped into the demon's mind, seeking the analog of herself held captive within him. The demon had been ready for such a move, however, expecting the Goddess to have such abilities, and Av found herself in a mortal struggle with her analog. Av sensed her analog had been tortured far worse than she had been, and she fought blindly, not knowing who or what she was tearing into. Av pulled the core of herself tight and dove for the depths within her twin, hoping there was a better world within her she could escape to. Av was being stripped of her very identity as she closed on her destination, laughing to herself as she realized that in the world she was going to she really was the Goddess. As she reached the event horizon, she felt herself losing touch with her mother. The bond that had allowed Av to preserve her mother's mind had kept them in silent contact throughout her strange adventure in Vael's World. Av sensed that the reverse would not be the same. Their bond could not bridge three universes. Her mother would have her own body again now, Av understood, and that made her happy, though she wished they did not have to be separated forever. And then she was gone. As she struggled to awaken in the new world awaiting her, she searched her mind to assess the damage. Her life had been shredded, about all she had to remind herself who she was was a name. Av. 






























Title
Body


