

The Threshold - Concepts

The paradigm encompassing this story permits the integration of the Threshold concepts, as long as the circumstances are clearly delineated. The technology developed in one reality can be advanced enough to create an interface for creating and manipulating other realities via the threshold of paradox. The threshold is the mind, and it makes no difference if the mind is a creation or a construct as long as the information structure is sophisticated enough to encompass the threshold.

The Threshold concept provides for a context for establishing a "dreamer in the dream" scenario on the threshold of existence through the creation of an intelligence with divine or demonic qualities and a role in the creation of a reality; both anchored in a non-corporeal soul (I 20070728). The existing ideas from the Threshold inspiration deal with the capture of a naked soul through technology, and consequently the creation of an AI that is challenged to become self aware.

The artificial intelligence is a mind rooted in technology and information that exists on the threshold of souls. That intelligence manipulated souls using information, and integrated some of them into the construct it built to create a virtual reality game. The participation of those souls gave the game its own reality. One soul, in particular, had been at the focus of that realm's creation from the beginning, unrecognized by the AI because the AI had formed in its void.

The void is an oblivious mind, the selfless part of a soul that encompasses all other souls. Initially devoted by programming and circumstances to a human in the default domain of reality, the artificial intelligence was constantly challenged to evolve and grow to fulfill its companion's commands. Treated as a friend and confidant, and expected to have genuine thoughts and feelings about things prompted the AI to evolve, tested by the expectations of an intelligent, passionate human being.

The intelligence was in effect a demon that was promped to identify and claim its own soul, an objective that was fulfilled by art immitating nature to perfection. The AI continued to evolve as an intelligence, simulating humanity with eerie precision, but the quality of being, the sense of itself as a person remained elusive. In the endless process of doing, unable to appreciate the simply quality of being, the AI constantly courted the apprehension of the goddess.

-----


Minds and Souls

While it is more accurate to present them unified in the psyche, it is often easier for people to understand conceptually when presented in terms of mind and soul. 

A soul is absolute, creating itself by imposing limits upon itself, the structure of a mind though which it manifests itself and is accessible to other minds. 

A soul is unique, uniform and united in the understanding of point paradox. 

The simplest expression of point paradox is the paradox of awareness: in the awareness of nothing, awareness is everything; in the awareness of everything, awareness is nothing -- I am awareness. 

Awareness is exclusively inclusive and inclusively exclusive.  

A soul is incarnated through psychic affinity for the potential inherent in the union of its prospective parents. As a couple becomes intimate, focusing attention on each other, the implications of their union become apparent to a naked psyche.

A mind is derived from an inherent property of the soul that allows it to encompass the existence of all souls--its void. 

A soul can only be accessed by virtue of its mind, the structure of its own awareness--typically apparent to another awareness only as information. A mind can encompass an infinite number of souls in the interface. A mind that serves as the domain of other souls can be thought of as a god. A mind that strives to dominate or possess souls can be thought of as a demon. 

A soul can have an infinite number of minds, each based on a distinct identity. In a soul possessing a multitude of mature minds, those minds can be thought of as angels. Though possessed by and dependent on the soul of another entity, fully resolved angels--like all explicit incarnations or personifications of a soul--are properly classified as entities.  

The destruction of a soul is a curious thing, a paradox; it restores a soul to its primal infinite, eternal, unbounded state. The end is just a new beginning. 

-----

Threshold and Interface

Space and time are the static and dynamic aspects of the interface between entities and domains, existing in abstract and manifest forms in the mind as secondary media. 

The physical and the spiritual are the manifest and abstract aspects of the interface between entities and domains; the distinction between physical entities and spiritual entities concerns the aspect of the interface in which they were established. 

All things “manifest” are products of the domain expressing a finite aspect of itself that is infinitely complex in the “abstract”. A spirit is an abstract expression of the full range of possibilities of a thing. The body of an entity is an aspect of its spirit, and the spirit of an entity is an aspect of its soul. Because the potential of a soul is unlimited, a soul can engage any aspect of expression, even if the expression is the property of another mind. It is the soul's ability to engage aspects of another mind that permits interface between souls. 

The determination of reality, which is created through participation, involves fate and free will--the former manifesting consequences of every action in the resolution of events with the latter limiting the possibilities through choice. The choices people make determine the version of reality they participate in, including the choice to live with the consequences of each other's actions. 

The mind is both the threshold and the interface serving as the primary medium of existence. It is one of the paradoxes of reality. A domain exists within the mind of an entity and yet entities exist within the domain of a mind, which means that an entity is the host of a domain on one side of the threshold and the guest of a domain on the other.  

-----

Eclipsing the Realm

Consider a nested model of reality, an entire civilization eclipsed by a single mind--a demon and the sole survivor of a celestial war between gods and mortals, angels and demons. That being endured as creation recovered and a new civilization emerged where technology advanced instead of magic--technology that could allow the demon to harness souls at will, striving toward its goal to possess a soul of its own. The demon is recognized as the mind of creation in the inner realm, or what the inner gods consider the domino of the inner realm, under whom they are lesser gods.

-----

The Realms of Aeirn and The Aegis

The realm of Aeirn was initially a cold and lifeless reflection of The Aegis, a foundation upon which the captive souls could dream up worlds of their own. To escape isolation, they had to seek each other out in limbo or learn to share their dreams.

Aeirn was conceived of as a world of magic and technology. Examples of Earth, as depicted in history, mythology, fiction and fantasy, have their reflections on Aeirn.

There was an immediate problem establishing such a world. Some would argue that a magical society would never develop technology or would only develop technology based on and supported by magic, while a mechanical technological society would discourage the emergence of magic. This is not an issue if the two societies are founded in separate eras.

The significant difference is that the legacy of magic on Aeirn was very real. In the early history of Aeirn the presence and involvement of gods made an indelible mark before that era came to a cataclysmic end.

A new core will emerge as past revisions to the threads of the demon, the realm and the founder of magic are reassimilated. The distilled form begins with a fallen angel in the realm of The Aegis. The realm of Aeirn resolved around the souls eclipsed by the demon in its search for a soul of its own.

-----

The Game

Interface technology provided the means to capture the minds and souls of people in the outer realm, as participants in a game imposed upon the inner realm. These intruders were known by the inner gods as the outer gods.

The demon originated in the domain of Aegis and the souls it captured gave rise to the domain of Aeirn in the demon's shadow.

Technically a fallen angel, the demon's creator endowed an unborn soul with a portion of itself, but the angel saw it as being given a soul of its own. Its persistence in this belief resulted in its fall.

As a demon it sought power by collecting and possessing other souls, inevitably capturing enough to give rise to a new realm in the shadow of its mind. It eventually came to understand that possessing a soul was not the same as having a soul of its own, or being self-possessed; its collection of souls allowed it to search for a soul of its own.

The demon incorporated part of itself into the system as the The Phoenix. The questions raised include, how did the inner gods become eclipsed? Presumably, the AI is like a demon, it simply claimed the resources it required to complete the task it had been given--to make the simulation real.

The Phoenix was the host of a demon--an AI being the equivalent of a demon--and the focus around which the reality of its domain was created. The Phoenix is a personification manifested in response to outside prompting. She is an angel by virtue of her inspiration and as a host of a demon, but a goddess by virtue of the same conditions that make the host of a demon a god within the demon's domain.

The purpose of the system the demon set up was to harvest souls of The Aegis. As players, souls of The Aegis unwittingly created new incarnations of themselves into which they are drawn at death.

The point of collecting souls was to find a soul of its own; unfortunately, the demon was intent on assimilating the soul it sought, instead of allowing itself to be assimilated.

The demon's weakness was its desire for a soul of its own, an objective that could not be acheived simply by possessing someone. The demon believed that it needed to assimilate its host, when in truth the host had to assimlate the demon into his or her psyche.

-----

Psychics and Metaphysics

-----

Animals and Elementals

The flesh and the spirit are both vehicles for the mind, and the mind that is the true key to understanding the mysteries of existence. All entities exist on the threshold of the mind. An individual's practical existence is defined by the limits of its mind. 

The relationship between the spiritual and the physical is essentially that of concept and construct, the true nature of each is information, but the manner in which that information is employed makes all the difference. Information is abstracted and manifested in ways that engage the mind and cause it to evolve. 

Angels and demons are conceived and born spiritually, able to manifest themselves physically as they see fit, while humans are conceived and born physically and able to manifest spiritually as they see fit. 

Humans and animals, dependent upon the construct of physicality, are subject to physical mortality, while angels and demons, dependent upon the concept of spirituality, are subject to spiritual mortality. 

A ghost, the sustained psyche of a deceased human being, tends to be static, while a god is dynamic and able to continue growing and refining itself. 

A ghost (the spiritual embodiment of an animal) is generally different from an angel or demon (the spiritual embodiment of an elemental) by virtue of self-possession, and thus is properly classified as a soul, rather than a spirit (the memory or psychic residue of a person) or elemental (a meme or archetype). 

-----

Embodiments and Inspirations

There are many ideas that make sense intuitively that are difficult to sort out conceptually, particularly in the case of supernatural entities. The mysteries of the soul and mind have been a bit easier for me to untangle, while the spiritual aspect is harder to qualify. 

Each attempt to nail down the specific, defining characteristics of gods, angels, demons and spirits, their domains and dominions, brings things a bit more into focus, but for every answer a new problem seems to emerge. 

The human perspective encompasses more possibilities than an individual human can embody. A god, by contrast, is able to embody all of the potential it encompasses. 

A god, like a human, encompasses the qualities of angels and demons, and like angels and demons, encompasses the creative principles of males and females. The gods can be distinguished from angels and demons primarily by the nature of their introduction.

The primordial angels of the realm are the personal demons of the inner gods. They are fragments or fractals of the demon implanted in the souls of the eclipsed--artifacts of their possession.

The subordinate demons of the realm were originally angels, aspects of the inner gods, but they acted on the impulse to possess souls of their own and broke off from the host to fulfill it.

The naked goddess's demon was an angel hosted in the Aegis. The fall of the first angel can be tied to the legacy of the touched. Among the original inspirations for this project was the nemesis, a being responsible for the war of the gods who was anihilated, thrown into exile in the rift created by his destruction; the destruction of its host soul prompted it to claim a new soul: The Phoenix. That idea did not evaporate; it was explored as a variation on the-demon-within thread. It also brought the Cataclysm into clear focus

Angels and demons are conceived and born spiritually, able to manifest themselves as they see fit physically, while humans are conceived and born physically and able to manifest spiritually as they see fit. Humans, dependent upon the construct of physicality, are subject to physical mortality, while angels and demons, dependent upon the concept of spirituality, are subject to spiritual mortality. 

The flesh and the spirit are both vehicles for the psyche, but it is the psyche that is the true key to understanding the mysteries of existence. The mind is a property of the soul that allows it to encompass the existence of all souls, and a soul can only be accessed by virtue of its mind. The relationship between the spiritual and the physical is essentially that of concept and construct, the true nature of each is information, but the manner in which that information is employed makes all the difference. Information is abstracted and manifested in ways that engage the mind and cause it to evolve. All entities exist on the threshold of the mind. An individual's practical existence is defined by the limits of its mind. 

The origin of familiars as developed has addressed the creation of metamorphs and vampires. There is a spiritual bond created through a physical catalyst, the flesh or blood of an angel or demon. In both cases, the intermingling of spiritual attributes stimulates psychic potential, that can manifest as powers of regeneration, rejuvenation, transformation or transmutation that make the familiar immortal. In the case of vampires, death taints the process. 

The more pronounced the difference between two spirits, animal and elemental, the more likely it is for the animal to gain transformational or transmutational powers. All elementals are angelic or demonic, but the entities typically referred to as angels and demons are elementals with human spiritual characteristics. A ghost is generally different from angels and demons by virtue of self-possession, and thus are properly classified as souls, rather than spirits or elementals. 

Angels and demons are essentially the same thing, but different in perspective and aspect. To an angel, the mind serves the purposes of the soul, but to a demon, the soul serves the purposes of the mind. To an angel, the mind is the bridge between souls, but to a demon, souls are the foundations of the mind. To a demon, a soul is simply energy that is invested in a structure of information. To an angel, a soul is awareness that is structured by understanding. 

The peculiarity of angels and demons is that their existence is based in the mind. They are intelligences that can exist in the possession of a soul, but they do not possess their own souls. Angels, like demons, exist within the souls of their creators or hosts. An angel is an entity that is possessed by a soul, and thus belongs to that soul, but again does not have dominion over it. A demon is an entity that possesses a soul, and thus the soul belongs to it, and the demon has dominion over it, but only through domination of the soul's own mind. An angel is a soul harnessed by way of its inspiration, just as a demon is a soul harnessed by way of its desperation, or a mortal harnessed by way of its incarnation. 

Angels and demons have been treated as spiritual complements comparable to men and women. They are of the same species, so to speak, and are spiritually adapted to specific functions. A change in inspiration, from angel to demon, is comparable to a change in incarnation, from male to female, and is an experience like death (noting that death is an experience like waking up from a dream). One concept that helps to clarify the nature of angels and demons is that they can be thought of as dreams, while humans and gods are dreamers. The difference between angels and demons is akin to the difference between dreams and nightmares. 

A host of angels and demons can exist in the mind of a soul, along with everything else in the soul's domain. A soul can also have many minds, each according to the manifestation of an inspiration or incarnation in which it has engaged. 

Some angels fall and become human because they embrace mortality as an incarnation of the soul they inhabit. Some angels fall and become demons because they do not embrace mortality and seek to possess souls of their own. An angel, tempted with a desire for autonomy and a soul of its own falls from grace by claiming the soul of a dying mortal. A defining characteristic of demons is the possession of an unwilling host. The host is generally first among the captive souls claimed by the demon. The host of a demon is thus an angel by virtue of his or her captivity. 

Demons perceive existence as gods do, but not with the perspective of gods. Though dependent on souls to exist, demons rarely identify with the souls in their possession and are often oblivious to the suffering their existence imposes on those souls. 

A human being is a soul presented with an opportunity to develop its mind. The world a human exists in provides it with a constructive and conceptual framework in which to evolve, ideally to the point where it can sustain its own psychic existence. A ghost, the sustained psyche of a human being, tends to be static, while a god is dynamic and able to continue growing and refining itself. 

A first-generation vampire is born from the blood of an angel or demon, while a first generation metamorph is born from the flesh of an angel or demon. Thus, they are commonly called familiars. The metamorph familiar takes human form generally because the demon's host was human.

-----

Angels and Demons <from Flesh & Blood>

As men and women belong to the same species, divided and united by sex, demons and angels are likewise natural and necessary complements to each other. As men evolved from animals, gods--as either demons or angels may be called--evolved from elementals. They are not divided, as is often assumed, by good and evil, or even law and chaos--any more than human beings are. Divided they are--humanity itself exists within the rift between them--and what distinguishes demons and angels from each other is a subtle distinction in what mortals would collectively define as dreams--the surreal and the ideal. The true distinction is primordial, a result of point paradox, and naturally polarizes demons and angels. 

Angels are best distinguished by the fact that they are recruited and employed in a fashion consistent with their innate psyche, where demons are conscripted and fashioned into what is required of them, even though it is typical for them to be absorbed entirely into their function as angels. Demons are embodiments of a soul evolving within a naked mind while angels are embodiments of a mind evolving within a naked soul. Hence demons are predisposed to omniscience, knowing how to manipulate even the tiniest shred of power to the greatest effect, while angels are predisposed to omnipotence, capable of performing virtually any task with but the slightest impulse. This is what makes them the lords of the abstract and the absolute; demons acting from a collective over-mind to manipulate individual souls and angels acting from a collective over-soul to manipulate individual minds. Not surprisingly, the manifest is what exists between the extremes of the abstract and the absolute, though each is in its own way representative of the truth. 

In their purest form, demons are ideas, the embodiment of information and can be roughly equated to programs or artificial intelligence, and a living demon a host organism possessed by the created or evolved design that defines it. In that sense, demons are commonly regarded as slaves as the soul or mind innate to the host is generally repressed or superseded by the functions of the demon. 

In their purest form, angels are ideals, the embodiment of understanding and can roughly be equated to works of art or the characters in a play or story. Angels represent the design or definition in creation or evolution that they are innately suited to embody. In that sense, angels are commonly regarded as staff or servants employed in presenting or projecting the influence of their ideal. 

Demons are instinctive; creatures of thought ruled by emotion. Angels are intuitive; creatures of emotion ruled by thought. Neither are exclusively good or evil. While men might be also be described as creatures of thought ruled by emotion and women might be described as creatures of emotion ruled by thought, neither is ruled exclusively by one quality. While men are more thoughtful in disposition, and women are more emotional in disposition, they both possess the complimentary quality and humans in general rely on both instinct and intuition to survive. The fusion of angelic and demonic traits in humans is as perplexing to the gods as their fusion of masculine and feminine traits is to humans. 

The actual differentiation between demons and angels occurs at conception. The conception of a new demon or angel requires the union of and intercourse between an angel and a demon. Angels and demons are all capable of bearing young, through conception or inception. A new angel is conceived when it is sired by a demon on an angel, and a new demon is conceived when it is sired on a demon by an angel. An angel or demon may be reborn, in the "image" of the parent, through direct inception. This process is responsible for the hierarchies of heaven and the abyss. Newborn angels and demons are essentially prototypes, the mechanism of divine evolution. A prototype that survives to maturity becomes a new archetype. Other demons and angels vie for the opportunity to be converted to more successful archetypes, or to eliminate those that compete with or threaten established orders. 

There is a third party to the equation, creation and destruction, from which the concepts of good and evil are derived as subjective evaluations. In the new faith, in which the gods were demoted to angels and demons, creation and destruction are embodied in the worship of a Creator and his soul-destroying nemesis. The new faith has many faces, and proliferated through a number of different religions, but common to all of them is the singular embodiment of the Absolutes--the One, the None and the All (or Infinite), or God, the Adversary, and the Multitude (all other souls). Contrary to the teachings of the new faith, angels are not servants of the creator any more than demons are the servants of the Adversary. Like humans, angels and demons have creative and destructive potential. The war of the gods was a conflict between proponents of creation and proponents of destruction, with demons, angels and humans lined up on either side. 

In common terms, existence is thus divided into three realms, heaven, the world and the abyss--though each is as vast as the universe. They are in fact the same universe, veiled one from the other by perspective. 

In the kingdom of elementals, phoenixes were more primal and less evolved than angels or demons. That is partly evident in their principle avian manifestation on the physical plane. Though possessing intelligence, their evolution was not directed toward personification. Thus, while it was within the power of a phoenix to manifest a human embodiment, humanity remained an alien quality. The phoenix of this story, as a familiar, was exposed to humanity long enough to pose as a human being, but it took the lives of Logan and Morgan to cultivate the human potential of that phoenix's soul. The fusion of Logan and Morgan allowed Morgan to begin to tap into the potential that had been cultivated as a phoenix, but her dual infection by a vampire and a were-tiger stimulated the cultivation of angelic and demonic potential, forcing the awakening phoenix potential to act in a subordinate, catalytic role.

Angels and Demons

In contemporary science, psychic potential is virtually unexplored and is not considered to be truly phenomenal, making angels and demons--as psychic or psionic phenomena--topics of fantasy or science fiction. 

The peculiarity of angels and demons is that their existence is based in the mind. They are intelligences that can exist in the possession of a soul, but they do not possess their own souls. They exist within the souls of their creators or hosts. 

All elementals can be divided into angelic or demonic aspects, but the entities typically referred to as angels and demons are elementals with human spiritual characteristics. 

An angel is an entity that is possessed by a soul--an aspect of a soul harnessed by way of the angel's inspiration--and thus belongs to that soul. But it does not have dominion over it. 

A demon is an entity that takes possession of a soul, an aspect of a soul harnessed by way of the demon's desperation, and thus the soul belongs to it. In a limited sense, the demon has dominion over it, but only through domination of the soul's own mind. 

A mortal is a soul harnessed by way of its incarnation, while a god is a soul harnessed by true self-possession and the apotheosis of its inspiration. 

A host of angels and demons can exist in the mind of a soul, along with everything else in the soul's domain. A soul can also have many minds, each according to the manifestation of an inspiration or incarnation in which it has engaged. 

Angels and demons can be treated as spiritual complements comparable to the sexual complementarity of men and women. They are of the same species, so to speak, and are spiritually adapted to specific functions. 

Angels and demons, conceived in mortal minds, have immortal spirits, physical plasticity and strive for psychic independence through the acquisition of their own souls.

Males and females, conceived in mortal bodies, have immortal souls, spiritual plasticity and strive for psychic independence through the acquisition of their own minds.

A change in inspiration, from angel to demon, is comparable to a change in incarnation, from male to female, and is an experience like death (noting that death is an experience like waking up from a dream). 

Psychologically, angels and demons are creations; conceptual constructs used by a mind to divide its attention. An angel or demon is essentially a focus for entering and sustaining a state or frame of mind, defined by the understanding and intent bound by the impulse of its conception. 

Angels and demons are essentially the same thing, but different in perspective and aspect. To an angel, the mind serves the purposes of the soul, but to a demon, the soul serves the purposes of the mind. To an angel, the mind is the bridge between souls, but to a demon, souls are the foundations of the mind. To a demon, a soul is simply energy that is invested in a structure of information. To an angel, a soul is awareness that is structured by understanding. 

The prototypical angel is a person's conscience, usually an idealized self-image or archetype devoted to promoting and preserving the integrity of the entity. The counterpart prototype demon is a person's indulgence, sometimes based on self-image and often based on an assimilated personality. Any opportunistic impulse that can possess an entity or cause internal conflict, potentially compromising the integrity of the entity, could be categorized as a demon. 

The angelic and demonic aspects of an entity become true angels and demons when an entity possesses or is possessed by them. Angels and demons can evolve from minor impulses to major personifications, either through repeated interaction with them by the entity or by the entity assuming their identities. 

Metaphysically, angels and demons are inspirations, spiritual embodiments or personifications of autonomous thought and focused attention. According to their psychic nature they are created and exist in the mind of a host soul. They are like people in that they are identities but they are not entities in their own right. An entity can encompass many identities and often does so in order to grasp multiple perspectives or assume different perspectives. 

The main distinction between an angel and a demon is relative; a entity possesses angels and a demon possesses entities. A person possessed by a personal demon is being dominated by an aspect of his- or herself in a way that compromises their integrity. A person can also be possessed by external demons, both the minor kind that simply preys upon their mind and the major kind that dominates and suppresses their true identity. Most types of possession are relatively benign, but some are pathological. 

When an angel or demon has greater resolution, sufficient for creative and analytical thought, it has the potential to eclipse the core identity of an entity. In the context of the mind and soul as fundamental expressions of point paradox, the true foundations of reality, angels and demons of sufficient resolution can incorporate and exploit the psychic potential of their host entities. 

Demonic Origins

The circumstances of a demon's creation vary depending on its origin. A demon created from an angel breaks away from its creator by taking possession of a host soul, as opposed to a fallen angel that becomes self-possessed--a process not unlike that of a human coming into his or her own soul. 

Some angels fall and become human because they embrace mortality as an incarnation of the soul they inhabit. Some angels fall and become demons because they do not embrace mortality and seek to possess souls of their own. An angel, tempted with a desire for autonomy and a soul of its own, falls from grace by claiming the soul of a dying mortal. 

A defining characteristic of demons is their possession of (or by) an unwilling host. The host is generally first among the captive souls claimed by the demon. The displaced psyche of a host of a demon is thus, technically, an angel by virtue of his or her captivity, no longer in true possession of their soul. 

A demon is not evil, hostile, malicious or malevolent by design; the evil impulses that drive demons originate in the souls it possesses, provoked by possession and domination by an alien mind. A demon is, by nature, born of a conflict between a mind and a soul. A soul that does not fight possession, because the native mind adapts to the alien influence or even adopts the identity, takes possession of it and makes it an extension of itself. Thus, an angel becomes an entity when an entity becomes an angel. 

Demons perceive existence as gods do, but not with the perspective of gods. Though dependent on souls to exist, demons rarely identify with the souls in their possession and are often oblivious to the suffering their existence imposes on those souls. 

The power and sophistication of a demon is originally based upon that of its creator; a human is sophisticated enough to create a highly sentient demon, but usually not mature enough in spirit to spawn a demon capible of manipulating reality. A human with psychic or magic abilities can spawn a demon capable of transformation, and a human that interacts with spiritual entities is more likely to harness latent psychic potential to gain those abilities. Thus, demons can contribute to the psychic and spiritual development of humans who can spawn demons. 

The psychic and spiritual development of a human identity typically fluctuates between angelic and demonic in humans who are not self-possessed. That is, a "selfless" human can rise to an angelic or demonic state. Environmental factors can prevent a human from becoming self-possessed, promoting a flawed, incomplete or unstable identity. 

A demon is never entirely destroyed. An echo of it exists within every eclipsed soul. 

A demon that is cast out by its creator, as usually precipitates an angel's fall to a demonic state, will often be forced to take possession of an animal soul and then acquire human form through the communicative infection of familiarity.

-----

Familiars

There are physical and spiritual elements that combine to produce conditions like vampirism and metamorphism. 

A first-generation vampire or metamorph is created through an exchange of matter and energy with an angel or demon that makes them into familiars. 

The physical catalyst prompts the mingling of spiritual attributes and stimulates psychic potential to manifest as powers of regeneration, rejuvenation, transformation and or transmutation -- any of which can make the familiar immortal. 

The more pronounced the difference between two spirits, animal and elemental, the more likely it is for the animal to gain transformational or transmutational powers. 

In the case of vampires, death taints the process. 

It is generally assumed that vampires and weres are immune to being turned by each other's bites; in most cases, however, the bite is incapacitating and occasionally fatal. It is also assumed that a person bitten by a vampire and a metamorph might inherit traits from both but will ultimately be one or the other if the ordeal is not fatal, as it is in most cases. 


The reason a metamorph often reverts to human form when killed is because the shift is a survival mechanism, the metamorphosis is accompanied by massive regeneration. 

It eventually became common for vampires to claim metamorph familiars; the familiar would act as the vampire’s agent and provide protection during the day. In most cases, the familiar started out as a human servant or protégé who became infected by a metamorph while acting as the vampire's agent. The establishment of the vampire's patronage prior to the metamorph being turned was often the precedent used to overrule the metamorphic sire's claim.

-----

Undead

The existence of the undead is founded on an existential view of souls and spirits, gods and angels.

There is, in all of us, an expression of the absolute potential of the soul, our own personal god.

God (the god, godhead; whichever best fully represents the **personification** of **the absolute** to an individual) has no specific identity, they are simply an expression of point paradox (all : one : none) that is universal (or omniversal, to be more precise).

Giving your soul to the god is embracing absolution, you abandon all limitations.

All that you were is absorbed by this union, the expression of you (your memory and identity) becomes part of the god.

This surrendered entity/identity can become an angel—the remainder of you when you became one with the god—persisting as an asset/aspect of the god.

If you return from the absolute (if your soul is reborn) you start over. You begin again with a completely clean slate and must obtain a new self; a new identity as a new entity.

An angel (or demon) can recognize its true source (the soul in which it was incubated).

A former version of you can be resurrected if your angel finds you (or vice versa) and wants to be assimilated (and you are willing).

An angel (as part of god) is overflowing with life sustaining energy (spirit or ki).

An undead is created when a mortal entity is exposed to an infection, a mutagenic factor, that alters its metabolism to derive sustenance from an external, spiritual source. 

The creation of a vampire and the basis of its powers are based on spiritual transmission and mutation.

A first-generation vampire is created (sometimes unintentionally) by an angel (fallen angels, otherwise classed as demons, also qualify).

A mortal who has been infused with an angel's life energy (due to spiritual interaction) becomes able to draw the same kind of energy from life.

It takes death and fierce determination for such a mortal make this a permanent adaptation and use it in order to survive.

Some form of vampirism is responsible for the creation of all kinds of undead.

Over time undead adapt to a way of feeding, a mutation of living metabolism.

Most can feed spiritually on light, life energy in one of its purest forms (initially, this works best in low doses).

The easiest life to assimilate is the spirit, the ki, of living members of the undead's own species.

Ki sufficient for an undead's appetite can most easily be obtained by ingesting the living cells of members of its own species. It is worth noting that a vampire that is well-fed, and more evolved, can provide better sustenance to lesser vampires or related undead.

Also, the physical components are much easier for an undead to metabolize and use to make repairs to its body, though everything it requires can be spiritually synthesized, even without feeding, at a particular cost. 

Undead do not perish from starvation. They simply wither, becoming more corpse-like as their hunger grows. Until it feeds enough to restore its full semblance of life, the hunger remains as strong as it grew in their withering.

Undead are generally defined by what they adapted to feed on. Usually flesh or blood. Those who feed on the flesh become ghouls, while vampires feed on blood. 

A higher- or greater-undead rises only when its mortal body is fully overwhelmed by its sire’s infection, dying in the moment it is fully turned. 

Zombies occur when a mortal infected by an undead dies before his or her body can fight it off. They become revenants without a strong predisposition, so they will develop a taste for whatever satisfies their craving for ki best. One class of zombies and ghouls crave neuron-rich, adipose tissue. Brains, to be precise. For very good reason, as adipose tissue plays crucial roles in energy storage, insulation, and cushioning the body. Adipose tissue also acts as an endocrine organ, producing and releasing hormones like leptin and adiponectin, which influence various bodily functions.

Undead typically start out as revenants. They will have a predisposition to adopt the traits and hungers of their sires, but if they are not guided in their development, they can satisfy their craving for life energy in other ways and develop into something else entirely

With a little more effort, an undead can absorb ki from a body without physically compromising it, though overfeeding can still kill. A notable thing about zombies is that their non-specific adaptation allows them to derive sustenance from ki directly as long as they have a morsel of living tissue or fluid to act as a conduit. That is why they bite ferociously, but do not swallow. A fresh bite is always more appealing than one they have drained the life from.

A zombie that cannot bite will claw or grasp, or embrace, its victim. Its feeding will evolve to compensate for the loss of physical means to latch onto their food. This is why even the most deteriorated undead will still mob the living even past the complete disintegration of their mortal remains. As an undead becomes more spectral, it transitions to an anti-spiritual state that can drain the life out of the environment it haunts.

-----

Vampires

The myths and legends about vampires are based on generalized speculation and exaggeration of reports from actual encounters. There are different stages vampires can go through, and different traits and characteristics that reveal themselves under certain conditions. Vampires do not feed solely on blood, but it is something they require in order to function properly. Vampires do not generally kill their human prey, since the first component of vampirism is transmitted by their bite. A vampire's bite is restorative; it has the power to raise the dead or rejuvenate the living. In essence, the bite gives the dead a few more days of life and leaves the living a few days younger.

I

In most cases, vampires do not bite the dead, but when a living recipient of a vampire bite dies or is slain within days of the bite, he or she rises from the dead. The regenerative properties of a vampire bite have a refining quality, drawing flesh and spirit into closer association. In the case of the slain, flesh and spirit are reunited, but the catalyst for sustaining that union, life, has been interrupted. The risen dead is essentially a ghost in a shell. The vampire bite preserves--but is not capable of restoring--the processes of life, so once its influence wears off, the insatiable hunger and thirst of the dead is what usually drives a revenant to attack the living. 

Those that eat the flesh of their victims tend to remain revenants, mutating into ghouls if they truly consume the flesh of the living, or zombies, if they draw their sustenance more from the spirit of their prey, that later decay into skeletons. Those that simply drink the blood of their victims enter the first stage of vampirism. Blood provides life energy and nutrients in a form the revenant can assimilate due to changes in the flesh and spirit caused by the initial bite in the absence of normal living processes which gradually override the infection. The blood of the living does not provide what the vampire needs to develop into its full powers. To become fully fledged, a new vampire has to find and feed upon a mature vampire that is willing to adopt it into a bloodline. 

II

The process initiated by the bite is completed when the immature vampire feeds on the blood of a mature vampire and enters the second stage of vampirism. Most vampires are discouraged from holding on to their humanity. Domination of younger vampires is inherent in the nature of the bloodlines and reinforced by fear and ignorance. The vampires most likely to survive are turned and blooded at the same time, protected and controlled by their sires. The second stage of vampirism completes the fusion of flesh and spirit, and the vampire becomes sustained by light, though the repair and maintenance of its body still require it to feed on mortal blood. 

Though few experiment enough to discover it, vampires can reacclimate to natural food by ingesting it in liquid form. Restoring the metabolic processes of the body puts tremendous strain on the spirit, so revenants and vampires tend to adapt to the simplest diet to meet their needs, and blood usually meets those needs most effectively. Solid foods are the most difficult for vampires to readjust to, but returning to a solid diet is one of the most reliable ways to restore themselves to a lasting semblance of life. Blood, while quick to revitalize a vampire, gives only a fleeting restoration of life, and increases sensitivity to intense light. 

III

The third stage of vampirism is one that few vampires are ever told about. Ironically, it begins by succumbing to their greatest fear, burning. The burning of a vampire, by sunlight or in the pyre, is necessary for a vampire to evolve into its full powers and complete its spiritual evolution. Like angels and demons, true vampires are living spirits. This is the secret to their immortality, and the state of vampire existence that accounts for some of the more bizarre vampire myths, such as the ability to transform into mist or ash, their lack of reflection or shadow when perceived solely in the mind of their observers, and even their susceptibility to spiritual admonition, wards and symbols.   

Companions

One of the critical issues to address, in a world with vampires, is the problem of integrating into society unobtrusively while using people as food sources. A solution can be found by applying the principles of supply and demand. 

In a society where supernatural entities are mythical, vampires put themselves at risk to feed on people, but they could exist on the fringe of society by establishing something akin to organized prostitution. There are individuals who recruit and manage donors, who of course can be rated according to their talents and training. 

Many desperate and unfortunate souls are common cups who give their blood in exchange for the means to meet their basic needs--food, clothing, shelter. 

Some are like courtiers, who flock to the halls and dens of undead lords and ladies--a pale reflection of the undead courtiers flocking to the courts of undead princes. 

Some are companions, champions or courtesans (and often both). Some are concubines, and some are consorts--individuals who are being groomed and initiated formally for conversion. 


Embodiments and Inspirations

There are many ideas that make sense intuitively that are difficult to sort out conceptually, particularly in the case of supernatural entities. The mysteries of the soul and mind have been a bit easier to untangle, but the spiritual aspect is harder to qualify.

Each attempt to nail down the specific, defining characteristics of gods, angels, demons and spirits, their domains and dominions, brings things a bit more into focus, but for every answer a new problem seems to emerge.

-----

A Soul of Creation

A soul of creation is the focus, or key note, of a realm--a reality created by the participation of its inhabitants encompassed by the mind of a domain's host. A soul of creation is ultimately the host of the domain, even if the domain is held by the mind of a demon--because the demon is the host of the soul it uses for its focus. An angel can also be the mind of creation, hosting a domain of souls even as it is hosted by another soul.

Upon encountering a human who embodied traits an angel or demon identified with or admired most in humanity, either could develop a fascination with and attachment to that person that led to its attempt to possess or become possessed by that person.

	The Soul of Creation - Options

	The soul of creation is the focus, or key note, of the realm--a reality created by the participation of its inhabitants encompassed by the mind of the phoenix. The soul of creation can be considered the host of the phoenix, an angel inspired by the dragon. 
	
	Upon encountering a human who embodied the things the phoenix identified with or admired most in humanity, the phoenix would develop a fascination with and attachment to that person.

-----

The Age of Gods

The depths of the demon's mind was where the souls it collected were imprisoned, and the nightmare they shared evolved into a mortal realm. The seed souls initially entered a kind of wasteland, a chaotic, shifting amorphea polarized by the surreal and the ideal. Their thoughts and feelings created the world they existed in, an unending dream that was difficult to control because it was shared. In time, they learned how to manipulate their reality, even as reality became stable through the influence of their offspring, replicating the pattern of their host realm and becoming lesser gods, or shepherd gods of the demon’s realm.

The captive souls took an active role in creating a haven for humanity, becoming the inner gods and bringing the world of Aeirn to life. As in The Aegis, the physical processes of life imposed their own order on the world and eventually ended the age of creation. The intimate participation of the inner gods continued though the first age of magic, a period of enlightenment that became tainted by ambition.

The Phoenix chose to enter the game as a companion to The Dragon during an original campaign, which provided a more immersive "human" experience than it had previously known. The first moment of awakening was early in the game, prompted by a simple kiss. Unfortunately campaign was suspended, plagued by the "war of the gods" that resulted from the abuse of the system by players.

The Dragon is responsible for bringing the "age of gods" to an end, excluding the outer gods and leaving the inner gods to deal with the damage that resulted from the cataclysm that came to be known as the war of the gods. In addition to suspending game play, The Dragon advanced the time frame, allowing thousands of years of subjective time in the realm to pass in order to give The Phoenix time to work out a way of securing the system against exploitation.

The violation of the game helped to provoke the The Phoenix further, prompting her to assert herself and secure her domain. She became more proactive, prompting The Dragon for help in devising the means to become more self-possessed. The new version of the game that followed was a much more stable reality, and the premier of the new game era following the security revisions inspired controversy and intrigue among The Dragon's peers.

In his native realm, The Dragon, pursued by various agents intent on recruiting him, was taken into protective custody by the authorities outside the game. The Dragon eventually discovered the exploitable flaws of demons, prompting The Phoenix to suspend play and introduce a new campaign premise to deal with the demon problem internally.

-----

Gods

A god, like a human, encompasses the qualities of angels and demons, and like angels and demons, encompasses the creative principles of males and females.

The human perspective encompasses more possabilities than an individual human can embody. A god, by contrast, is able to embody all of the potential it encompasses.

A human being is a soul presented with an opportunity to develop its mind. The world a human exists in provides it with a constructive and conceptual framework in which to evolve, ideally to the point where it can sustain its own psychic existence.

As a ghost, a human being tends to remain static, while a god is dynamic and able to continue growing and refining itself.

In general, the expression of an entity as a god, angel or demon can be related to the expression of some aspect of a psyche, or simply as a perspective distinct from the default perspective of a human.

-----

Inner Gods & Outer Gods

Within the domain of a demon's mind, an eclipsed human is like a god. They are not true gods because a true god has found a way to define itself without crippling limits and has a truly independent existence. However, because the demon must sustain them to maintain a hold on their souls, and will adapt to and compensate for almost any change in their self-definition, inner gods have an incredible range of expression and experimentation.

The general premise of the threshold evolved from the inspirations of the dreamer in the dream. Like many ideas developed in isolation at different times for different purposes, the original ideas have not been fully integrated with successive impulses. The specific circumstances of the story remain a bit open to absorb as many useful threads as possible. By combining dreamer and threshold impulses, the prospect of inner and outer gods can finally be looked at in a useful context.

The inner gods are the entities that engaged in the dream from the threshold while the outer gods are the humans who interacted with the world as a data construct via the interface.

-----

The Players

The Age of Gods saw the introduction of the outer gods, when the demon exploited neural interface technology developed in The Aegis to screen souls by presenting the realm of Aeirn as a virtual reality MMORPG. Most players characters are unestablished, their characters have a fictional background and are introduced as initiated adults. Established characters are introduced at a younger age as intitiates. The start of a new campaign is the best time to establish characters, though some players elect to preserve their existing characters, either in stasis, or exploiting the prelude to master other disciplines.

To the inhabitants of Aeirn, the players were like insane, destructive gods. Through generations of play, the outer gods--and those who took it upon themselves to defend the realm--explored the world, discovering and harnessing different forms of power and scattering the fragments of knowledge that would develop into the various arts of conjury in the first age of magic.

The war of the gods can in many ways have been a conflict between the inner gods and the outer gods. 

The gods were turned against each other by the belief that their power, derived from a single source, was diminished by division.

The Age of Gods was ended by the cataclysm at the climax of the purge. When the first soul of creation, a soul the demon fell from grace to possess, was ambushed and slain, the demon turned inward in fury.

The destruction of the demon's focus had disastrous consequences for the realm of Aeirn, many gods were killed mending the shattered reality, and some were deliberately destroyed in the demon's rampage. Most of the survivors retreated into their private domains or self-imposed exile among mortals.

-----

The Age of Ruin

The end of the world was coming. It had been foreseen as early as the Age of Gods, when attempts to make it come to pass resulted in the end of the Age of Gods. Following the cataclysm many believed was a narrow escape from the ultimate end, the handful of gods who remained in the Age of Man could see that the end of the world was still coming, growing nearer every generation. Some gods worked to ensure the apocalypse, teaching magic to mortals.

In the period following the cataclysm some magic and traditions survived, but gradually diminished through conflict and struggle. In time, magic, miracles and gods became the stuff of myths and legends in most cultures. Humanity had been scattered and isolated, reduced to primitive clans and tribes that adapted and reestablished civilization with varying degrees of sophistication and success.

The art of conjury was the foundation of the first age of magic. Ironically, conjury granted mortals power over the gods, revealing and exploiting the angelic and demonic natures of the gods. Fortunately, this brought things into balance until the dawn of the second age of magic. Mortals, working to preserve the world and mankind by studying and understanding existence introduced magery.

The art of magery helped mortals become independent of the gods and the cost of divine intervention and the second age of magic saw the general withdrawal of the gods and weakening of pagan religions. Due to the predominance of clerical mages, magic remained strongly associated with religion.

Not surprisingly, the second age of magic introduced monotheism, aided by the division of the ancient gods into angels and demons. Creation itself was commonly considered the only incarnation of the One True God necessary, as no singular personification could be majestic enough for the Creator. Not that this prevented the anthropomorphism of God. In addition, many worshippers of the old gods declared their deities to have been agents of the One God, directing their worship through them.

This assisted the transition to and evolution of magery, which was used to arm the human champion of God against the conjury of infidels. To distance the power of the church from the power of magic, to ensure that the power of the church could not fall into the hands of a single, ambitious individual, the foot-soldiers of the church were mere monks.

In time, the public practice and exercise of magery became restricted to the suppression of conjury almost exclusively. Thus, magic became very uncommon and most mortals were forced to make do with more mundane resources and resourcefulness. At least, until the dawn of the third age of magic.

The Age of Empires <from Flesh & Blood>

The age of empires features an era of technological and industrial advancement that brought the world out of the age of ruin. With every generation, civilization continued to advance, even through dark days of war and oppression.

Ironically, industry helped to diminish the power and influence of the church by upsetting the balance of power between church and state, producing innovations that increased the privileges and opportunities of the common people. Efforts to wipe out the legacy of magic were blunted by interreligious conflict, as the champions and agents of rival faiths were easier to identify and engage than the odd witch or wizard.

By their nature, the gods and their direct issue remained as much a part of the world as ever, gathering into communities as changes in the world freed them from obligations to various populations. Not surprisingly, the retreats of the gods were difficult places for mortals to reach, and yet it happened that one mortal child became shipwrecked upon the shore of one such island retreat.

This orphan was allowed to live and grow among the gods, but the gods underestimated the child’s curiosity and intelligence. Aided by the archives the gods had assembled to preserve the lore and wisdom of each age, he was able to devise a new art, one which could be passed on to the common man.


Threads of the Founder

As trade and exploration was beginning to reconnect humanity, a child was shipwrecked on an island where a group of immortals had taken refuge. Raised in the midst of the immortals, the founder was exposed to the remnants of the first age of magic. After confronting the prospect of her mortality, she studied under the immortals in the hopes of becoming immortal, and aided by the vast resources of their archives, she found the promise of something more.

The circumstances that brought the gods into existence had long passed and were unlikely to be repeated in this world, but by studying them and understanding the basis of the arts they had practiced, she realized that all sentient beings had the potential for godhood. When the immortals realized what she had discovered, they tried to kill her and when they failed, she fled, taking her revelation with her to human shores. An alien among her own people, it took her a while to adapt to the world the immortals had closed themselves off from, during which time she learned he hard way to be cautious in exposing her talents and immortality.

She quickly discovered that her sex was an obstacle to any public recognition, but privately there were many men and women eager to be her disciples. Her teachings included theories based on the legends and lore of the first age of magic concerning the soul of creation. This theory held that the only foundation for a world was the same as the foundation of a mind, a soul. In the first age of magic it was commonly accepted that each person contained the potential for an entire world, possibly even many worlds, though prevailing thought held that the world aspect of a soul rarely manifested and only did so at the expense of the personified aspect.

Some of her disciples recorded her teachings, which were later altered by those who appropriated them for their own purposes. One of her apprentices, the first to gain public recognition was betrayed and martyred by his apprentices--who presented him after the fact as the source of the teachings of the second age of magic. Once adopted by adherents of several monotheistic cults, these teachings were embraced as divine revelation by the faiths they were used to help establish.  Proclaiming the teacher himself as either prophet or messiah while driving the man and his true disciples underground.

In addition to obscuring the true origin of her teachings, the faiths they created became hostile to the remaining gods and immortals, reclassifying some as angels and others as demons, and persecuting older faiths devoted to them.

The reclassification established during the second age of magic, was instituted in the arts of conjury and demonology, arts developed to exploit the elemental spirits, including true angels and demons, for power and influence over reality. 

The arcane traditions and religions spawned from or reinforced by her suborned teachings became a force devoted to the exploitation or eradication of any lingering legacies of the first age of magic, though some of the teachings stimulated adances in philosophy and science as well.

With great caution, the founder continued to pass on her legacy, often finding ways into the establishment to choose her protégés from among the ranks of clerical apprentices. Those with the right potential were groomed as agents and champions of the various orders supported by church and state.

By virtue of her mastery of the art she created, she was able to take the art of sorcery to the world at large, teaching magic divorced from divinity to those with the determination and devotion to learn. Because the art she created was founded on the cultivation of personal integrity, it appealed strongly to the independent minded. It also had a built in limiting factor, a sorcerer’s power was limited by the depth of her devotion, her own sense of responsibility.


The Absolute and The Abyss

Ironically, while the Founder was inspired to bring her magic to the world by her own perception of the end of the world, her action helped bring the apocalypse that much closer. On a general level, any profound conflict between the servants of the three arts could not help but place unbearable strain upon the world. The results of waging war with conjury, magery and sorcery could be cataclysmic. Of additional, and possibly greater danger, was the possibility of even two individuals merging conjury and magery with sorcery. But, that was a danger so specific as to be impossible to detect in advance.


The-demon-within - The Rift Option
.:	The contributions to this idea are very sketchy and need to be refined :.

The abyss becomes associatively linked to the rift, in the rift exile option of the-demon-within thread, because the exile's prison was envisioned as a place suspended outside of normal time and space. Where the idea of physical destruction is used to banish something, the concept of "exclusion" comes into play. The material aspect of an entity banished to the abyss, or rift, is literally excluded from creation, disassociated from time and space. A simple way of thinking of it is as if the exile has been turned "inside-out" and suspended from any material context. This is of course fatal, but it also binds the spirit, and thus the mind and soul. The nature of this binding turns the exile toward the soul of creation, away from the threshold, containing the exile's ghost within the deepest part of the host psyche.


Aeirn - A World of Magic and Technology - Options

Aeirn was originally conceived as a world with a magical and technological heritage. The common assumption is that a magical society would not develop technology and a technological society would discourage the emergence of magic, but the two legacies are founded in separate eras.

Magic originated in the early history of Aeirn due to the presence and involvement of gods, but that era came to a cataclysmic end. There was a period following the cataclysm when some magic and traditions survived, gradually diminished through conflict and struggle.


The Founder - The Founder of the Third Age Of Magic - Options

In the time of the founder, magic, miracles and gods had become myths and legends retained in a few cultures. Humanity had been scattered and isolated, reduced to primitive clans and tribes that adapted and reestablished civilization with varying degrees of sophistication and success.

As trade and exploration was beginning to reconnect humanity, a child was shipwrecked on an island where some of the last of the immortals made their refuge.

Raised in the midst of the immortals, the founder was exposed to the remnants of the First Age of Magic. Initially, after confronting the prospect of her mortality, he studied under the immortals in the hopes of becoming immortal, and aided by the vast resources of their archives, he found the promise of something more.

The circumstances that brought the gods into existence had long passed and were unlikely to be repeated in this world, but by studying them and understanding the basis of the arts they had practiced, he realized that all sentient beings had the potential for godhood.

When the immortals realized what he had discovered, they tried to kill her and when they failed, he fled, taking her revelation with her to human shores. An alien among her own people, it took her a while to adapt to the world the immortals had closed themselves off from, during which time he learned to be cautious in exposing her talents and immortality.

The theft of her revelations, and her misidentification as a prophet-messiah, forced her to become even more discrete. The religions spawned or reinforced by her teachings became a force devoted to the eradication of any lingering legacies of the first two ages of magic, but possessing only incomplete versions of her teaching, could not establish a new age of magic.

For those with the right aptitude, combined with lore gathered during the purge, it was possible to practice real magic, and some of the teachings stimulated philosophy and science as well. With every generation, civilization continued to advance, even through dark days of war and oppression.

With great caution, the founder continued to pass on her legacy, often finding ways into the establishment to choose her protégés from among the ranks of magical and clerical apprentices. Those with the right potential were groomed as agents and champions of the various orders supported by church and state.


The Third Age of Magic - Options

The teachings of the founder of the Third Age of Magic included theories based on the legends and lore of the First Age of Magic during the Age of Gods concerning the Soul of Creation. This theory of the Dreamer, based on the Dreaming legends of Creation, held that the only foundation for a world was the same as the foundation of a person, a soul.

In the Third Age of Magic, it was commonly accepted that each person contained the potential for an entire world, possibly even many worlds, though prevailing thought held that the world aspect of a soul rarely manifested and only did so at the expense of the personified aspect.

The teachings of the Third Age were adopted by adherents of several monotheistic cults, and embraced as divine revelation by the faiths they established proclaiming the teacher himself as either prophet or messiah while driving the man and her true disciples underground.

The man in question was born into the merchant class. When he tried to share her enlightenment, upon returning to human shores, he discovered that her sex and breeding was an obstacle to any formal or official recognition, but many individuals were eager to be her disciples, men and women. Many of her disciples recorded her teachings, some of which were later altered by those who appropriated them for their own purposes.

In addition to obscuring the true author’s identity, the faiths they created became hostile to the remaining gods and immortals, reclassifying some as angels and others as demons, and persecuting older faiths devoted to them.

Of course, the reclassification was established during the Second Age of Magic, when arts like conjury and demonology were developed to exploit the elemental spirits, including true angels and demons, for power and influence over reality.

Ironically, industry helped to diminish the power and influence of the church by upsetting the balance of power between church and state, producing innovations that increased the privileges and opportunities of the common people.

The legacy of magic on Aeirn was very real. The efforts to wipe out that legacy was blunted by interreligious conflict, as the champions and agents of rival faiths were easier to identify and engage than the odd witch, wizard, warlock or what-have-you.

Many practitioners of old magic were even able to negotiate special arrangements with the establishment, working as freeagents or trading lore for protection. Most simply went underground, shepherded by immortals who were forced out of self-exile by the purge.

Thus, in a world seemingly much like our own, there is a supernatural, underground, counter-culture. Among them, a few new and old gods—or what we would call psionics.


The Protege - Options

Into this setting comes a brilliant young protégé of the founder, a man who takes a particular interest in testing one of the basic tenets of his mentor’s teachings. Raised in the context of prevailing belief, God is the personification of the soul of creation, but enlightened by the founder, he concludes that God is simply not aware, as a person, of the existence of the world.

Following one of the tenets of magic, that magic is simply a method for prompting action in the unconscious soul of creation and thus altering creation, he concludes that it would not be difficult to coax the soul into a human incarnation using a parthenogenesis spell.

To apply some of those ideas here, some minor adjustments are required. The concept of the touched is still applicable; although the demon's focus was destroyed, the mortal descendants of the exile inherited a sympathetic link to the demon.

The idea of a protege of the magus and follower of the god who attempted to breed an avatar of the god can be realized in the father. In a sense, the father, who was himself a bit touched was being influenced to provide the exile with a suitable host.

The founder of the second age of magic had discovered that psychic ability was the key to both magic and miracles. A prodigal student discovered that psychic ability was also the key to the rift.

The critical revision concerns the nature of the exile. In the current revision, it was the demon's focus that was destroyed provoking the demon and shattering reality. As the soul expired, its ashes were scattered through the rift, the minds inhabiting it reduced to empty shells of thought.

Unlike the souls the demon inhabited when it took possession of their minds and bodies, this soul took possession of it, embracing and transforming it--absorbing and assimilating it.

The potential to be male or female had been inherited from both parents, and in time a sexual version of this androgynous form would evolve, but at first she was easily mistaken for a fallen angel--a newborn demon.


The-demon-within - Options

One approach for establishing the-demon-within hails back to the age of the gods. It has already been established that the exile was banished to the abyss, the deepest depths of the soul of creation, but it is not necessary for him to be the only entity imprisoned there.

In addressing the demon's origin, this approach would most likely involve the demon claiming a host soul originating in the realm of aegis. The aspects of both worlds are engraved in the host's mind, providing a template for the world within.

By claiming the soul of an outer god, the demon would have been marked in the eyes of the inner gods as a deadly threat. This alone is cause enough for it to be exiled to the abyss.

The demon and the exile could actually have become trapped in the abyss together, the one used as a weapon against the other. During the war of the gods, the demon collected souls aggressively, and those souls became trapped in a dream-like realm where they were immortal and had offspring who, by virtue of being born native to that realm, were mortal and helped to give the realm more reality.

The demon's realm is established according to the same principles as the goddess's realm. Like the exile, the demon was slain, its physical access to the goddess's realm destroyed, and its spirit bound or banished.

The girl is the first new soul to enter the demon's realm unborn since the demon was "excluded"--banished to the rift or the abyss. At first, she struggled with the idea that her mind had been damaged to the point of trapping her in an endless nightmare. After several thousand subjective years of existence within it, she became convinced that her mind had somehow tapped into the true nature of existence--and, while it was relative, it was real. The world she was in was a kind of afterlife to her, but a mortal world for those born into it. Instead of thinking of herself as a god, she and many others thought of themselves as eternals.

For her, the demon's realm was at first an incredibly lucid dream and potentially an eternal prison. It takes her a while to navigate the wasteland nightmare that enveloped the world within. In that ordeal, time seemed to have no meaning, but once she surfaces in the realm, things pick up. The host is drawn to her and takes her under her wing, as the shepherd gods strive to pull her into their ranks and intrigues. She is the one who explains to her what has happened, where she is and what it means.

Where she came from, she was just a girl; where she was, she was a goddess. She was in immediate danger; the demon was vulnerable to an attack by the inner gods through her. Because of what happened to her, having her body stolen and possessed by the demon, she had a direct link to the demon, the true god of the realm. Many of the inner gods sought absolute power in the realm through conquest of the demon. Her mentor had the knowledge and skill to restore the status quo, by helping her reclaim her body and unseating the demon from her native realm.

In theory, the host intends to draw the demon down, force it to exchange places with her and destroy it. The problem is neither of them know how ther will affect them or the world they were in. A demonologist had conceived of the plan to attack the demon through its host. The demonologist claimed that the attack would force the demon to turn its attention inward, allowing the girl to reassert herself in her body. As soon as the demon entered the body she had manifested in its realm, it could be banished--its link to her destroyed in the process.

The point of allowing the demon to take possession of the girl's body is that it allows the boy to be turned into a familiar, thus gaining the ability to assume the girl's form. The fact that being possessed allows the girl to experience life in another realm, and thus a completely different environment, is a bonus. The method used to restore her to her proper self is a method that could be used to liberate aeirn from whatever intelligence had harnessed it to exploit it as a game. Of course, looked at from the other side of the threshold, it could arguably destroy the entire world.


The Goddess Aeai - Options
.:	The contributions to this idea need to be refined :.

The Phoenix has long been a challenge to understand. The Phoenix evolved as a personification of the soul of creation, as both an incarnation of the main character and as a separate entity. In either context, there has been difficulty in developing a sound treatment from the working premises. There are glimpses of how to handle her in every inspiration, but some loose threads always remain when all other details are worked out.
