impulses-wip_20011212-0359.txt

Impulses: A Child of Paradox | Work In Progress

return to original impulses
the impulses and impressions explored
alternatives that come to a dead end
the puzzles that emerge and how to unlock them
the project as a whole is reconsidered

reviewing the evolution of the dragon and the phoenix 
the history of the dragon and the phoenix
a foundation to realize the initial inspiration
how to properly build on that foundation
a new approach is defined

the point of stopping to examine the positions of key events 
what gets pushed into remote or historical contexts?
what works in a contemporary context?

the focus has always been the incorporation of the dreamer in the dream
resolving impulses remotely excludes those events or invites repetition
without them the plot becomes hung and cannot be resolved

The most important impulses displaced to the past were the exceptional initiations of the dragon and the phoenix.
They were displaced primarily to resolve the circumstances in which the dragon and the phoenix could be born in a human context.
That obstacle was predicated on a faulty assumption.
The need to establish the phoenix from a human perspective was mistaken as a need to establish the birth of the phoenix as a premiere and exceptional event.
However, it makes no sense to assume that the phoenix, the embodiment of birth and rebirth—among other things, was incapable of reincarnating herself, even when she was an embodied dream.
It goes contrary to everything she is for her to experience any kind of infertility.
It does not, however, go against her nature to be limited to an exclusive, exotic, and ambisexual embodiment which sets her apart from humanity.
That is very much in character and does present a significant obstacle to birth in a human context.
That obstacle is sufficient to present her with a challenge she cannot overcome by developing the ability to embrace a human context as a female.
Her affair with the dragon provides the impulse for her to embrace a female role, and his predisposition to a male role compliments it, creating the circumstances necessary for her to be born split into male and female incarnations.
This division satisfies the various impulses concerned with placing her into a human context without exploiting and expending the two initiations which force her to confront her true identity and authority from a human context.


The first question to consider is this:
Is it necessary to reserve both initiations for use in the daughter’s life, or is the story better served by using the first initiation to resolve the establishment of the dragon twins?
There has always been a question, a sense of uncertainty arising from the assignment of a third party to the relationship that exists between the dragon and the phoenix.
There has also been some uncertainty in the assumption that the exile was the dragon’s twin, as that role has a distinguished and enduring precedent markedly removed from anything associated with the dragon.
The circumstances under which a young phoenix, cut off from her past by a premature passing, seeks out her past and is drawn to the lair of her beloved dragon make an excellent foundation for an introductory book in an open-ended series.
Those circumstances also preserve the associations which were assigned to the dragon’s initiate which properly belong to the phoenix, who grows up an exotic nymph due to the lack of guidance necessary for her to assume the pose of womanhood her mother embraced.
The premature passing of Dawn’s mother had been part of an unsuccessful attempt by the exile’s followers to enslave the phoenix, abducting and attempting to corrupt the child and assassinating the adult to negate her influence.
Their intentions had been to rouse the memory of Eve, through whom the exile could be resurrected.
The climax of her adventure, being captured by slavers with whom she is held under siege by a dragon, culminates in her devouring and the initiation of the dragon.
The dragon’s twinning opens the door to a future rife with conflict.


The establishment of a foundation for the first human incarnations of the phoenix is not entirely resolved in the first book.
In the second book, the phoenix is divided by the conception of male and female incarnations.
When Dusk was twinned, Ash and Dust emerged.
The dragon, forced to confront himself, finds sufficient motivation to make war on slavery, demonology and necromancy in the north, and becomes involved in a rivalry with himself over the phoenix.
It is almost inevitable for the dragon to become preoccupied in a relationship with his twin.
When the dragon and his twin attempt to engage in a pact of rebirth, the circumstances necessary for the phoenix to be split into male and female incantations are already established.
Ash took on female form to fulfill the pact of rebirth, reincarnating Dust as a daughter Ash, and hosting a reincarnation of herself as a son, Dust.
The phoenix was also reincarnated courtesy of the dragon’s gift, born as Dust’s twin brother, Dusk.
The conception of Dusk provoked the conception of Dawn, a female incarnation of the phoenix.
Dusk and Dawn were two sides of the same coin, complimentary halves that could combine into a full incarnation of the phoenix.
The conception and birth of the four children puts Ash, Dust and Dawn in a vulnerable position at a time when their actions have provoked widespread open warfare.
Their most dangerous enemies plot with their allies to exploit that vulnerability.
They must struggle to keep their enemies from killing them, but at the same time they must protect their children from their own allies, seeking to eliminate the threat they pose to the survival of their leaders.


Dusk and Dawn were haunted by the memory of Eve, an identity assumed by the phoenix during her enslavement to the exile.
Eve was a reincarnation of the phoenix who was corrupted through the arts of demonology.
Her death returned her to the shadow of Dawn’s psyche and allowed Dawn to get close enough to the exile to destroy him, and banish his memory to the same dark recesses of her soul.


When Dawn was twinned, her twin assumed the identity of Dusk.


Observations

At the core, this series tells the story of an individual awakening to her true potential.
At the same time, her existence is complemented and encouraged by that of her soul mate and twin.
It is hard to ignore the influence of her twin, but at the same time their paths are so deeply entwined that at times their lives merge as one, presenting the illusion of a singular entity.
Previously, the foundation of the story was concerned with the origin of the dragon and the phoenix as active participants in the dream.
Ironically, in the synopsis of the origin of the avon race, most of the key impulses required to resolve the core concept of the story were addressed.
The dragon and the phoenix were incarnated as twins during the eclipse of dual initiations in which the phoenix was devoured by a tiger who was devoured by the dragon.
While that impulse continually falters, the associations it promoted were significant.
Upon isolating the events of the first book, it became clear that one important detail had been overlooked.


Pursuit of this thread was stalled by the question of when and where the twinning initiations of the dragon and the phoenix ought to occur.
Specifically, need they be explored in the present tense or can they be explored in the past tense through revelation?
The answer hinges on the disposition of Dusk and Dawn, and their assumptions about who they are.
The significant feature of their relationship is that Dusk and Dawn assume the roles of God and Goddess and the perspectives of the dragon and the phoenix.
The inescapable conclusion, after considering all the permutations, is that the dragon and the phoenix were embodiments of the same entity, the same soul and mind.


In search of a soul mate, the phoenix embraced an expression that included everyone and identified no one in particular.
Her desire to find someone was unconsciously embodied in the one who sought her above all others, because in truth she was looking for herself.
Her division was rooted in the simplest, and by nature most obscure, occurrence.
It was implicit in her nature to define herself, but in defining herself she was also defining him, her equal and opposite, her compliment, her balance.
In order for her to be the phoenix, he had to be the dragon.
In order for her to be the Goddess, he had to be the God.
Over the course of her evolution, he evolved, and this separation would inevitably tear her in half.
Once divided, the two halves would grow, side by side, encouraging each other, until they confronted themselves in each other, as twins.
The weight of this would fall upon Phoenix when paradox caused the beginning and the end to overlap in a single lifetime, in which the trinity of soul, mind and self would fully emerge.


Over the course of striving to unite the phoenix and the dragon as soul mates, this truth was lost.
So many things have contributed to obscuring the truth, among them the desire to need someone to be that perfect compliment.
A wish that, in the end, one is not alone.
That is not the lesson of the absolute.
One does not look outside oneself for completion, and one does not look to one other for companionship.
Once can embrace everyone, or no one, but in either case, one does so through embracing oneself.
In the process, one encounters the paradox of unity and duality which brings a trinity into focus.
In the trinity of the one, there are many relationships, all of which are entirely relative.
In this story, an individual is born in the shadow of the two halves that define her, and witnesses as those two halves inspire each other to become whole, attracted to each other by the promise of becoming whole, repulsed from each other by the threat of losing their own identities.
It is because the phoenix is the dragon and vice versa, that the most significant chapter of their lives finds them incarnated as a mere girl and boy, and the embodiment of their union is born with the power to be either.


From the beginning, the focus of the story has been the reincarnation of the phoenix of legend.
The key to the dragon’s chance of resurrecting the phoenix lay in his acquisition of her form when he set her free from her enslavement to the god of death and destruction.
According to the precedents established by dragon and phoenix initiates, the inescapable consequence of this action would be their initiation of each other.
In such a case, the dragon would have been confronted with a phoenix twin and the phoenix would have been confronted by a dragon twin, which is contradicted by the manner in which the affected potential was already employed.
As the prime examples of dragon and phoenix nature, initiated in point paradox, they are clearly exceptions to the rules.
This is something that cannot be overlooked without completely undermining the integrity of the entire series.
In overlooking it, a number of false assumptions proliferated, creating certain conflicts that must be resolved immediately.


The original dragon and phoenix were Dusk and Dawn.
There are two instances where an incarnation split off from either the dragon or the phoenix, as the result of initiation, appears in developmental notes.
In one instance, a twin of the dragon emerges and becomes recognized as the god of death.
In the other instance, a twin of the phoenix emerges and possesses memories that lead her to believe that she is actually a second twin of the dragon.
Both instances appear with little supporting material, but each offers substantial support for other unresolved issues.
In recent development, the true embodiments of the dragon’s “phoenix” potential, and the phoenix’s “dragon” potential came to light as the manifestations of the creator archetype and creation itself.
In this sense, it is clear that the dragon and the phoenix cannot initiate each other, for the potential is already distinctly expressed.
Attempting to initiate one another would instead have an impact on the potential each personifies.


The first initiation the dragon and the phoenix stumbled into together came in a moment of weakness, when the dragon succumbed to the impulse to devour her.
The dragon should have become a phoenix, or at the very least his twin should have been a phoenix twin, following the precedent of past dual initiations.
Instead, he was a second incarnation of the dragon.
Their efforts to understand how this could have happened led to the recognition of one significant difference between the dragon and all dragon initiates.
The dragon was unique in the sense that he had a pervasive presence and somehow acted as the psychic tuning fork of creation.
His penetration of the soul of creation had set up the resonance all other souls matched to interface with the dream.
In spite of the fact that he had not attempted to dodge initiation, as dragons usually did, his physical incarnation was merely a projection of his consciousness, similar to the projections elicited during a dragon initiation.
As a result, the mechanisms of a phoenix initiation latched onto what amounted to a thread of exposed consciousness, the kind of residue that would remain in the wake of an initiated dragon’s evacuation.
Further analysis explained why his “projection” had not been initiated as a phoenix.
The stamp of phoenix potential stimulated self-consciousness within the thread, and like every phoenix initiate conceived of its true self.
Unlike every other initiate, that understanding was already expressed, so the key to phoenix potential unlocked the nature and self-possession of the dragon within that projection as a reiteration.
The process destroyed the original expression of the dragon, and two perfect, equally original embodiments manifested in his place.
The same thing would have happened to the phoenix if she were subjected to a dragon initiation.


The second initiation the dragon and the phoenix stumbled into was essentially a repeat of the first, with one significant difference.
The dragon tried to simply destroy her, without consuming her.
Unfortunately, the damage his twin had done to her left scars that resurrected with her.
To free her from his influence, the dragon had to engage her on a psychic level and heal her.
But to heal her mind, he first had to capture it.
That was within his ability, but the first step was to strip her mind from her flesh—by eating her.
Conscious of the danger of initiating another replica of himself, he chose to risk exposing himself to a phoenix initiation.
He applied what he had learned to concentrate himself in the flesh, embracing the limits of mortality to keep from exposing a mere thread of his being.
At first, the plan seemed to be working.
The dragon snapped her up and devoured her, successfully capturing her mind in the moment of death and taking it into his grasp.
To his surprise, he had prevented the ignition of her metamorphic flame by capturing her consciousness.
He was able to focus all of his attention on healing her psyche.
As he released her, he focused himself to meet the flames that emerged.
Not willing to risk the slightest chance of promoting a new clone, he focused himself down to the primal singularity of his consciousness.
Ironically, the primal focus of his consciousness was the awareness of everything, in which awareness itself is as nothing.
Everything that had been a part of him fell within her grasp, but he himself had seemingly vanished.
There was no way to arrest the instinct that strove to resurrect him, but the phoenix was forced to provide the focus to resolve it.
Instead of initiating the dragon, the phoenix had twinned herself in an extraordinary way—by adopting his perspective in addition to her own.


In both cases noted, the mechanisms of a phoenix initiation seem to override the mechanisms of a dragon initiation, but neither event was blocked out, leaving the specifics somewhat hazy.
The dragon’s initiation exposed the underlying symmetry of dragon and phoenix nature.
This was not revealed in dragon and phoenix initiates, because the process of initiation predisposed them to apply the awakened potential in different ways.


Under normal circumstances, if a dragon initiated a phoenix, he drew upon the potential latent in her to evoke a predatory projection.
Such a projection was a unique manifestation of an initiate’s psyche, even if the initiate happened to be a phoenix.
The final act of initiation was the kill, at which point the dragon aspect was established.
The kill set off the mechanism of a phoenix initiation, which the new dragon aspect instinctively dodged, allowing the phoenix to resurrect empty handed to confront her dragon twin.
If a dragon simply devoured a phoenix, he became directly subject to a phoenix initiation, by jumping free he succeeded in preserving his dragon heritage and potential, but the body he left behind in the flames bore the stamp of his consciousness, which a phoenix instinctively tapped and branded the key to unlock phoenix potential into.
The only hint of symmetry between initiated dragon and phoenix potential was the mechanism of reincarnation, and that was disguised by the way they were predisposed to use it.
Only in cases of dual initiation, followed by communion, did initiates overcome that predisposition.


What is clear is that the original incarnation of the phoenix, and the secondary incarnation of the dragon become trapped together in exile.
The dragon, overwhelmed by injuries sustained in his final conflict, at Dragon’s Bath, hundreds of years after the phoenix was exiled, slips into a comatose sleep that lasts until the age of empires, during which his sleeping form is attended to by the phoenix believed to be the offspring of the dragon.
Her belief in the idea that she is the embodiment of his phoenix potential leads to her submersion in the dragon after his awakening

The opportunity for the phoenix to be reincarnated comes the instant the dragon is reincarnated, when the pump is already primed, so to speak.
It has been stipulated that the dragon was unable to reincarnate the phoenix until after the conception of a reincarnation of himself.
It has also been stipulated that the dragon was in the habit of attempting to reincarnate the phoenix whenever the opportunity for intercourse presented itself, that it had become an ingrained reflex, an instinct.
It has also been stipulated that an attempt to reincarnate an individual with a very strong bond to his soul mate can result in a dual reincarnation in which the soul mates are conceived and born as twins.
There comes a point when the distinction that calls for a conception to come after another conception vanishes and joint conception becomes certain.
The circumstances which are most likely, given who his dragon twin is by that point in time, favor the circumstances under which the phoenix is split into male and female incarnations and resurrected in paradox.


The prime incarnation of the phoenix was Dawn.
The second incarnation of the phoenix was Dusk.
These names would pass on to the first incarnations of the phoenix to be born, a girl, who would be named Dawn, and a boy, who would be named Dusk.
The prime incarnation of the dragon was Dusk.
The second incarnation of the dragon was Dust.
The prime incarnation of the dragon, in the belief that he was a third incarnation, was Ash.
The name of Dusk passed on to the phoenix, in the belief that she was the original incarnation of the dragon initiated as a phoenix.
The name of Ash would pass on to the first incarnation of the dragon to be born, a boy, a twin of the boy named Dusk, who would be named Ash.


Eve becomes the focus of the story.
The conception of Dawn, the reincarnation of the phoenix prime, was facilitated by paradox.
The unity of Dusk and Dawn, Phoenix, would be cast into the rift during a dragon initiation.
A singular duality would take her place in time, but the embodiment of unity would be salvaged by the phoenix to host Dawn’s conception.
An ember, conceived on the threshold of Dusk and Dawn’s union, would emerge from the shadow of union when Dawn’s conception forced Phoenix to split into male and female incarnations upon emerging from the pinhole rift.
That ember was the reincarnation of Phoenix, who would be named Eve.
She is a girl who embraces her masculine qualities, embodied and inspired.
As the reincarnation, or more appropriately the daughter, of Dusk and Dawn’s union, she is ambisexual, able to switch back and forth between male and female sexes.
Her presence absorbs all the influences associated with this metamorphic sexuality, allowing Dusk and Dawn to develop normally and confront their union equally.
The third sex is presented and examined in their union.
Her mother, Phoenix, is the original incarnation effectively destroyed by the emergence of the twinned Phoenix.

								

The second phoenix was a perfect replica of the dragon as the phoenix he would have become if he had not proved immune to initiation.
The dragon’s very acceptance of his fate simply reinforced her belief that she was the dragon resurrected as a phoenix.
The first phoenix emerged from her own resurrection insanely enraged at her enslavement, and the second phoenix was not able to restrain her.
She was distracted from pursuing her by the discovery of the dragon.
Given the events they had just endured, the second phoenix and the dragon simply assumed that some thread of his being had been exposed and responded to the impulse of resurrection by manifesting as another clone of the dragon.
This brief distraction delayed them enough to arrive too late to prevent the phoenix from punishing the dragon’s twin.
They arrived just in time to see him drag her down into exile with him as she banished him from reality.
In a philosophical—and metaphysical—way, the phoenix was not gone.
The world itself was a manifestation of her presence, a guarantee of her continued existence, but her loss was terrible to endure.
The loss of the dragon’s twin was also painful, particularly since it served to escalate the war among the gods.
The dragon tried in vain to retrieve the phoenix from exile, hoping to resurrect or reincarnate her.
His phoenix twin took up her responsibilities, striving to protect humanity from the cataclysm of the war.
The dragon retreated from the world to deal with the grief of losing his soul mate, repulsing even the efforts of his phoenix twin, stricken with the same grief, unable to look at her without being reminded of his loss.
She could not help but understand and gave him space and time to heal.


The conception of Dusk and Dawn would come in the wake of the dragon’s recovery from the conflict at Dragon’s Bath.
The dragon was awakened from hibernation by a young nymph in her quest to find the dragons of legend.
The nymph, Forge, would assume the masculine form of the phoenix, after being initiated by Ash, and conquer the winter kingdoms.
The dragon, Ash would help him in his conquests, after being reunited with Dusk and merging with her, posing as Forge’s mate in the feminine form of the phoenix.
The conception of Dusk and Dawn was triggered by the dragon’s desire for rebirth, and the premature passing that was the only way he could hope to bury the memory of losing his love.
The irony of his plan was that the phoenix he had merged with was not, as assumed, a phoenix incarnation of himself, but an incarnation of the phoenix overwhelmingly impressed with his perspective.
The reincarnation of the dragon was facilitated by Forge, who innocently tapped the souls of both the dragon and the phoenix, conceiving Ash and Dusk.
The conception of Dusk sent a shock through the soul of the phoenix, for whom this was only a partial conception.
To complete it, the phoenix acted unconsciously, and because her consciousness was focused in the shadow of exile, she was acting from within the sphere of paradox.
Another incarnation of the phoenix existed in the realm of paradox, a presence that resonated with the thought of Dawn’s conception, literally drawn to it as if her existence depended on it.
This incarnation of the phoenix was thrust through the pinhole rift to emerge in reality at the moment of Dusk’s conception to answer it with the conception of Dawn.
Phoenix was in fact the embodiment of Dusk and Dawn’s future, an embodiment of their union cast into the rift by the events that would bring them together and climax in a world-shattering dragon initiation.
The conception of Dawn was joined by the conception of Eve, a reincarnation of Phoenix.
The presence of Eve would protect creation from instant annihilation on the eve of paradox.
 


An Alternate Childhood, Phoenix

Her sex and appearance marked her, while growing up, as exotic rather than human, and a reincarnation of her mother.
A member of a rare and exotic race, raised among humans, she could not avoid being exceptional, but her efforts to try and fit in among human boys and girls would make her an exception even among her own people.
The only comparison among her kind were the twin avatars, the dragon and the phoenix, who were known to the human race as the god and the goddess.


It began while she was growing up and took advantage of her androgynous appearance to pass herself off alternatively as both a boy and a girl.


In some part, she got away with this by being an initiate in an elite, touring school, but at the same time she was creating problems that would confront her as she reached puberty, and her journeys brought her into contact with individuals who knew her as either a boy or a girl, but almost never as both.


She accepted the proscribed life, that of a temple maiden who had been stripped of honor, as penance for allowing the phoenix to die.


Her daughter, who came as a shock to all, since there were none who could question her mother's virtue--no man had ever dared to touch her, and she was proven a virgin well into her pregnancy--was perceived as a gift from the gods and adopted by her father, where she was raised as a woman of nobility and honor.


She was respectably wed, and her legacy descended directly from her, with the birth of one daughter in each generation who was true to her image, leading inevitably to Dreamer, who married Musk.


It was thus, through parthenogenic rebirth that Dusk's mother was an exact replica of her, and the human embodiment of her phoenix soul.
In the first few generations of direct descent, it became clear that the daughters of the phoenix were immune to the spring of drowned girl and could not recover the lost portion of her spirit.
However, during Dreamer's early pregnancy, while she was on a short vacation, she was abducted by the Prince of Togenkyo as a prospective bride of the enchanted island's prince.


Dawn, The Drowned Girl:
Impulses for Awakening

In "Dawn, The Drowned Girl" Phoenix lived her first life, the daughter of a Japanese Noble directly descended from the ancient and lost Empire of the Sun.
Her earliest known ancestors built the civilization marked by the long lost and recently rediscovered Pyramid of the Sun, found on their people's native soil in the depths of mainland Asia.
As Earth was a colony of Jurai, it is worth noting that Phoenix was the daughter of a crown prince of Jurai who chose exile on the primitive world for personal reasons and assumed the identity of the head of the clan--which he reestablished many times throughout history due to a tendency to have female children more often than not.
Phoenix was born Dawn, and many would say her naming was prophetic.


As a daughter, her prospects were limited.
An unfortunate fact which her father and brothers lamented as well as Phoenix.
As the favorite of those four noble men, Phoenix was indulged in many things a daughter might not otherwise have pursued, mastering arts more suited to a knight or priest than a young lady.
Phoenix had a passion for life and delighted in exploring its mysteries.
Phoenix was as wild as her namesake and tried to perfect herself in body and spirit, though Phoenix trained her mind even more exceptionally.


Aliases:
Inspiration of Dusk and Dawn 

Phoenix could easily pass for male or female and fit in with any group of boys or girls.
She appreciated her neutrality, since it allowed her to explore all of her interests.
That neutrality was threatened when she turned seven and faced the start of her initiation.
Initiates, due to the nature of the training, were not much for wearing clothes because they were so often working and playing together in the nude.
Without clothing she could only pass for a girl, and she dreaded the rejection of the boys when they found out.
Her unease was aggravated by things she overheard adults arguing about.
Her mother argued that there was nothing a boy could do that she could not, even siring children when she grew up.
Her mentor retorted that she would still be considered less than a man.
Those problems were for the distant future, though.
The real problem was how to include her in the training for boys without endangering her life, or worse as time went on, her modesty.


Phoenix, Coal and Ember were inducted into an elite school.
All of them had spent their childhood isolated from other children, privately longing for companions.
Phoenix invents her male and female aliases, Dusk and Dawn.
She adopts her female alias when she joins the school.
In the event that anyone finds out about her real name, she points out that it is her mother’s name, and that she might be a reincarnation of her mother, and discloses her exotic heritage, swearing the person to secrecy.
As the opportunity presents itself, she adopts her Dusk alias to pass herself off as a boy among strangers, although over time, other students notice that the boy Dusk tends to show up wherever the school does, but this does not compel Phoenix Dawn to confide the truth.
When confronted with a fellow initiate as Dusk, she maintains her charade.
Phoenix Dawn invents a story in which Dusk travels with his father, who no one ever meets.
Her mentor tolerates this game on the assumption that it arises from and benefits the development of her exotic psyche.


It had been determined that she possessed such awesome potential that no one dared to unlock it.
Even her mentor considered her a dangerous protégé.
At the same time, she was as promising as the prince.
He was willing to devote himself to overseeing her natural development, but she would have to learn discipline through the athletic and martial arts.
The other children selected had displayed exceptional potential as well, but unlike her, their power was manageable.
They could be taught as the prince would be taught, while she had to remain close her mother, who seemed to be the only one who could manage her.
Her mother had a strange restraint.
She did not overtly participate in her education, except perhaps as her role model and inspiration.
In spite of taking responsibility for training girls to be priestesses of the goddess, her mother could hold her own against any man who crossed her.
It was enough for her to just be a mother, who, as the only adult exotic Phoenix Dawn knew, understood her better than anyone else.


Phoenix spent most of her youth touring the world with her mother.
They traveled in the company of a school.
A rather large school that sought out and took in individuals who exhibited unusual or extraordinary potential.
Growing up on the road would be hard, but the initiates would always be presented with new and interesting places to explore, spending only a couple of months each year at the places they called home.
The school made for a somewhat stable community, so they did not lack for friends and playmates.
It was quickly determined that Dawn was no normal girl.
She was the strangest child in the troop, a regular weirdness magnet, She quickly earned the reputation of being a tomboy and never set out to correct that impression.
Like Phoenix, Coal and Ember were both untrained telepaths, but their minds were already stable enough to prevent accidental rapport.
However, their strong personalities did not entirely protect the three from the strength of their telepathic talents.
The ease with which they could read each other’s minds provoked both of them to build strong mental defenses.


They honed their telepathic and telekinetic abilities working together, as friends and rivals.
Their exceptional abilities in the sphere of athletics, including mastery of martial dance, came as a result of having to acquire discipline through physical devotions, rather than mental or spiritual devotions suited to their potential power.
Their regenerative abilities and athletic aptitude brought them all to the attention of the school’s dancers, masters of the physical arts.
It was a demanding apprenticeship, disciplining their bodies in the skills of combat and courtship, and all forms of gymnastics and acrobatics, demanded for true mastery of the art of dance.


At a young age Phoenix was a promising master of the Art, what more superstitious minds called magic.
Due to the risks of being known as an Artist, Phoenix submitted to the comparably lesser infamy of being an "unnaturally" athletic and academic young girl.
Phoenix ought to have been an outcast.
Ironically, it was this unusual stimulation of mind, body and spirit, which made her destiny as a daughter virtually inescapable--Phoenix was much sought after, a prize many men were prepared to kill for.
It was with much trepidation that Phoenix begged her way out, taking upon herself a mission to visit the land of their earthly origin, hoping to recover a lost part of their people's legacy which would change the way her people viewed the fairer sex and perhaps offer some hope of a destiny of her own.
It was not that Phoenix could not bear to lend herself to supporting a man's honor and destiny, but Phoenix simply could not bear to be less than who Phoenix was.
Phoenix never wanted to be a man, but Phoenix lived in a world where only men were valued as more than property or resources (and to be sure, not all men could achieve such value!).
Phoenix wanted to be seen and accepted for who Phoenix was, respected for her abilities.
Phoenix wanted to fulfill the promise within her.
Phoenix supposed her father agreed with her.
He could not lend her support, but he honored her commitment.


Her decision was seen as a tragedy by those who had sought to possess her.
Phoenix had no way of knowing what tragedy her choice would lead her to.
Phoenix left her island home and traveled through Asia, with the phoenix that was her family's eternal guardian and her familiar, through the vast fields and towering mountains of China, making it almost to the land of her people's birth--and not further.


Aliases:
Embodiment of Dusk and Dawn

The children had spent their sixteenth year in the capital of the rapidly expanding western empire, Van Khomar.
They lived in the suburbs of The Seat, the sprawling university established by Raven almost a thousand years earlier.
On the eve of their seventeenth year, and their final examinations and trials, they returned to Dream Gate to confront their childhood demons.
The journey had been inspired by Coal's revelation about herself and Ember, as a test of their courage and discipline.
For most, Dream Gate was a fearful place, for it remained a haunt of the demonic and undead minions trapped during the Eve of Paradox.
Many young warriors ventured there to test their skills and gain experience in real combat, and in facing the paradoxical forces of the rift.
As phoenixes, demons and undead were not as frightening, nor raw paradox as disturbing, as the memory of what had been done to them in their hours of captivity when they were seven years old.


Her life became more complicated when she was sixteen and settled down for a year, in preparation for her final Initiation.
Just when it seemed that she must expose the truth about her exotic heritage--she rediscovered--and took advantage of her ability to become male or female.
Her frustration at being neither a boy nor a girl increased as adolescence touched her peers and left her unmarked.
The reaction of strangers met on the road had inspired her mother to remind her of her metamorphic ability.


As a boy she could use a separate identity she had created for herself, as Dusk, and she was known as a girl, as Dawn.
Thus, she was only able to be herself when she wandered off alone.
By that point, she had no trouble keeping her act straight as a boy or a girl.
She had taken advantage of her androgynous appearance to pose as both while growing up.
A talent that enabled her to fully embody those roles seemed like a perfect solution.
Naturally, there was a catch.
Phoenix Dawn quickly discovered that the talent was unreliable, it obeyed a tricky psychic trigger that imposed a rather strange, and revealing ordeal on her throughout her final year of initiation.
It was amusing, however frustrating, and it made that the most exciting year of her young life.

Mental and spiritual triggers were a bit complicated.
Because Phoenix Dawn had tremendous reserves of untapped and untamed power, it required some amount of mental and spiritual discipline to keep from triggering the metamorphosis unintentionally, but it took even greater effort to trigger it deliberately.
If disturbed or distracted, she might not be able to do it at all.


She was forced to adapt all her skills and abilities to her new forms, and, wanting to keep her ordeal a secret, she also found herself forced to understand and adopt two distinct perspectives and personalities.
She was always forced to invent some ruse to explain why Dusk and Dawn suddenly appeared or traded places in the most extraordinary circumstances.
Such occurrences were unavoidable when a spike of adrenaline, or a sudden shock, could trigger an accidental transformation.
Such occurrences gave the impression that Dusk and Dawn were sneaking around together behind people’s backs.


A small group of close friends spent enough time with her to catch her in the act, but they conspired to keep the secret, enjoying the massive, inside joke being perpetrated on the community.
As a result, only her immediate household, and close friends, knew about her ordeal.
Once they adjusted to her transformations, their relationship was cemented as something that transcended conventional rules about gender or sex.

Having a few true friends and allies proved a great necessity, because in male or female form, she proved to be exceptionally attractive and popular.
There seemed to be no end to people trying to pair her up with herself.
Because she had the same basic interests and pursuits as a boy or a girl, it was rather obvious that her aliases were “made” for each other.


Phoenix Dawn met Ash.
Phoenix Dawn was not the only child to make the assumption that Ash, the dragon-initiated twin of Coal, was his true compliment.
Phoenix Dawn unwittingly encouraged Ash’s attentions, paving the way for a love triangle to evolve between her and the two boys.
Coal and Ash quickly engaged in a rivalry over Phoenix Dawn.


While looking for a way to perfect her control of her metamorphoses, Phoenix Dawn was occasionally asked which sex she would choose to remain as.
Phoenix Dawn usually asserted that she would reclaim her native sex, claiming her memories were predominantly of that gender.
After mastering the talent, Phoenix Dawn found it impossible to give the habit of switching up, however.
In spite of all the trouble it had caused, it had provided tremendous insight into what it meant to be exotic and taught her how to cope with the disadvantages and use the advantages of both sexes.
For her, both male and female sexes were alien, but only as one or the other could she really fit in among her peers.
At the same time, though, she could not be herself.


By the end of that year, mercifully few people had learned her secret, but another problem existed.
She faced having to make a choice, a commitment to one sex, at her Initiation.
The entire purpose of encouraging her to explore her options was so she could choose her role in life.
If she could not choose between male and female, she might as well remain neither, for someone who flipped back and forth was as much an outsider as a unique.
The problem with deciding, however, were the questions about sex that she could not answer until after completing her Initiation.


Despite insistence that she would be better off not knowing--that her decision had to be based on social and not sexual concerns, she could not put it out of her mind.
Her friends were more sympathetic, but they also had their own opinions about what sex she should commit to.
For the most part, her transformations had all but prevented intimate relationships between those who knew her secret and herself.
Some of her admirers remained die-hard even after learning the truth, and they were the most insistent about how she should choose.
Driven by the prospect of forming a relationship with an exclusively male or female version of her, depending on their own sex.


The closer the day to decide came, the more frustrated she became.
It never occurred to her that the perfect solution was obvious.
Her mother and mentors had overlooked the possibility, but if they had considered it, they would have ruled it out.
It was considered too dangerous for a phoenix to submit herself to a dragon initiation.


Dragon Initiation:
Means, Motive and Opportunity 

A week before Initiation, her mother cornered her.
She gave the wend to make a decision, and the first morning of the week she had to have her talent locked.
Because there really was only one of her, and her final examinations and ordeals were public ceremonies, only one of her aliases could be complete initiation among her peers.
She struggled with the decision all night, becoming more and more worked up.
In a moment of sheer frustration, forgetting where she was, she went out for a walk.
Her wandering ended at a tavern, where she went in for something to eat.

Phoenix happened upon a war centered around a valley of cursed springs, and one spring in particular.
The spring of the drowned woman had been central to the way of life of the people who would become known as the Damned, but it had been destroyed by the Chinese Amazons in retaliation against the Damned.
Phoenix never really had a chance to understand the true nature of the conflict, but Phoenix did see more than Phoenix wanted with regard to the way the Damned treated women--whether the women they created with that spring or naturally born.


Dawn was diverted from her contemplations when a gathering of locals and soldiers at the inn recognized Dawn and challenged her to go into the ruins of the sanctuary and try to clean out the demons and undead rumored to have infested the catacombs buried under the temples, mansion and fortifications.
Unable to believe the report, she nevertheless accepted the dare, remembering her original purpose in Dream Gate, and recruited a party to accompany her for the mission.


Phoenix had already resolved at that point in her adventures to become an amazon if her quest did not succeed.
Her father had asked that much of her--not to return in failure, as much as it pained him to impose such an exile on her.
Phoenix had been welcomed among the Amazons, though Phoenix came perilously close to making a fatal error, and once her mission had been explained, Phoenix was given support.
The Amazons remembered the Children of the Sun and believed that restoring the honor and status of her people's daughters would benefit the warrior women.
Unfortunately, some of the elders and their followers held only contempt for the notion of an alliance with a people who saw women as mere equals, for they believed that women were superior and dared not encourage ideas of equality with men even among men who subjugated women.
It was for that reason that her mission was sabotaged.
Phoenix believed that those women had merely meant to discourage her when they betrayed her to the Damned.
As it stands, it hardly mattered in the end.


The solution to her problem would come to Dawn, while confronting the scene of her childhood nightmare.
The sprawling ruins amid which the sanctuary was set had long since been a burial ground for great warriors and mages and had offered the necromancers and demonologists all the material necessary to raise a legion of undead and animated monstrosities to start the war of the rift.


Dawn led a party into the ruins, confronting the reality of the horrors unleashed in the war firsthand for the first time, and yet finding a kind of peace and beauty amid the ruins.
Alarmed to find undead indeed milling about in the catacombs, she dispatches one of her party to make an official report and then descends with her men to determine the extent of the infestation.
They encounter nothing they cannot handle on their way in but are forced to retreat when they stumble into a chamber stuffed with hundreds, maybe thousands of undead.
They race through the catacombs and emerge within the forbidden section of the mansion.
Given the needs of the sanctuary, the forbidden sections were the majority of the structure.
A careful tour of the mansion turns up an impressive count of greater undead and even a few demons, all, for the most part, dormant in the daylight hours.


Dawn and her party found a safe spot to camp through the night, offering her the safety and privacy to bathe.
Disturbed to have found that the unused bulk of the sanctuary had been overrun by the dead and the damned, such that she had not been able to dispatch another of her men to report and bear warning, she counseled herself to clean up and maintain her composure.
Only after assuring herself that she and her men were in a defensible position did she feel comfortable taking advantage of the bath.
If nothing else, she had earned the respect of the men and suffered the blood and gore to prove it.
She was surprised to have her meditation disturbed, but looking up she was suddenly thrust well past mere surprise.
There, naked and alone, she finally confronted her childhood demons.


Phoenix survived the ambush, along with a few of her Amazon guides, and fled from the Damned.
To escape their pursuers, we ventured the terrifying gauntlet of Dragon’s Bath, fleeing nimbly across the scattered poles, repelling the few who dared to follow on that fatal terrain.
Unfortunately, we were unwittingly herded into the waiting arms of the Damned Prince.
Thus, exhausted, Phoenix and her companions were captured.


Dawn had needed no warning, the simple fact that he was unreadable alerted her to the danger.
Instantly she was in motion.
She found herself immediately engaged by the men who had slipped in behind him.
In a way she was grateful to be set upon by his guards, for against them there was no danger she would hesitate.
Nor was she surprised when Thorn himself stood aside through it all.
He was fresh and alert when she dropped the last of his men, and for a moment, she thought she had a chance.
The way he looked at her nude form summoned a flood of memories.

She was seven years old again, confronting the betrayal of her mentor.
For one blissful moment, he allowed their friendship to come first.
He pulled her into his embrace and held her for a moment, and then he began to explain.
He was obliged to capture her, thankful that his orders were simply that, and not to kill her.
His understanding of the situation would have led him to assume she would have to be the first to die.
If she wanted, she could try to fight for her freedom, but only then would she be in any true danger of dying.


She was not surprised to be hearing the same explanation again.
The difference, this time around, was that she actually could put up a fight.
Given their common regenerative gift, an all-out fight between them would be unbelievably brutal, and she still did not know what it took kill a dragon.
Particularly one who was also a demon.
Fortunately, for them at least, death had not limited the effectiveness of his companions.
Inevitably, they managed to immobilize and subdue her.
She had no doubt that whatever awaited her now was much worse than death.


It was her misfortune to have caught the eye of the prince, and that he had taken pains to learn more of her.
Her virginity protected her from the treatment which befell her companions, but it marked her for a worse fate.
The prince knew that Phoenix would never submit to him, and that to claim her would be certain to bring strife from her homeland, as some of her suitors had already followed in her footsteps.
No, instead, he would have her indirectly by drowning her in the new spring his men had dug to replace the one the Amazons had destroyed.
A strong and healthy girl, only sixteen years of age, and pure of body would make the perfect sacrifice for the new sacred spring.
It would take a thousand years for the impression Phoenix would leave in the spring to fade, so for a thousand years it would be her image imposed on any who fell in the spring, and then inevitably the strength of her image would fail, rendering merely the best possible version of female humanity given the material on hand.
Only rarely would a victim, in most cases some poor animal, emerge from the cursed pool with her face and form.
Phoenix knew this from lessons Phoenix had learned about Dragon’s Bath during her initial stay with the Amazons.


Phoenix was taunted with lurid visions of the version of immortality that awaited her as the newly dug spring gradually filled to the brim.
Within her close guard, Phoenix was free to move about in body, but her magical and spiritual abilities were bound severely, locked so deeply within her they should not emerge in those united with her form.
Her hopes of rescue and escape diminished to one vain possibility.
Phoenix had to be alive to meet her fate, and Phoenix would have killed herself first, but Phoenix had a dream that final night, a dream which suggested that Phoenix might somehow rise from her watery grave and realize her true destiny.


Phoenix confided in her fellow captives this omen of her rebirth.
Phoenix charged them to ensure, somehow, that the spring came to no harm after her passing.
On the following morning, Phoenix challenged the prince.
Phoenix swore to enter the water of her own will, to peaceably accept her fate, if the women who had accompanied her were allowed to leave and return to their people, whom they would implore to protect the sacred spring from harm.
Unwilling to have a vengeful spirit within the spring they used to baptize their brides, the Damned considered the matter seriously.
To further have some guarantee that the sacred spring would not be destroyed by the Amazons, as they had shown they would despite the normal penalty of such an action, they finally agreed.
One of the women volunteered to witness her sacrifice, while the others departed.


After composing herself, Phoenix entered the fresh spring and embraced her fate.
Phoenix exhaled her last breath as Phoenix sank into the cold embrace and then drew in the waters of death and rebirth.
As Phoenix thrashed and her brain starved, Phoenix had a vision of a boy, so much like her favorite brother, thrashing in the water beside her.
Phoenix managed only one glimpse into his eyes, and the soul behind them was familiar to her.
It was her own.
Phoenix died wondering what it would be like to have been born a boy and suspecting that her next life might just hold the answer.


Phoenix Dawn was surprised to find herself alive, still in the private bath where he had captured her.
Phoenix Dawn investigated the rooms staked out by her party and discovered that they were missing, along with all the gear she and they had brought with them.
The taint of paradox permeated the ruins, and space and time seemed to have warped around her.
She called upon her inner resources and attempted to find her way out of the maze of rooms the mansion had become.
The intensity built as Phoenix Dawn confronted her captors, witnessed the death and defilement of a few of her party members and friends, and learned of the fate in store for her.


The demon had been torturing her friends with detailed descriptions of his intentions, to defile and corrupt her, and turn her into one of them, a demon.
Thorn and his minions were guarding the baths where she had been incapacitated, preventing her party from coming to her rescue.
Phoenix Dawn stumbled upon the central pool, emerging from a side passage onto the grand balcony ringing the grand atrium.
Pausing at the sight of Blaze, she leaned out to call to him only to turn on her heel and run for dear life as a dragon reared up before her.


Unfortunately, her current form was one shared by demons, and her own party mistook her for the enemy when she emerged from the baths.
Blaze, the second in command of their expedition was a dragon initiate, was a young man with whom she had been falling in love, and he assumed her appearance spelled the worst for his beloved.
There was no time to explain, as the prince assumed his lethal dragon form, with fatal intent.
She fled, and the dragon pursued.


In flight, the demon confronted Phoenix Dawn, and tried to seize her, but she managed to break away.
When it became apparent that he could not catch her, he had changed tactics, employing the means of a dragon initiation to keep her in flight from a pursuer she ultimately could not outrun.
The dragon projected by Blaze, during the crisis, became distracted by the appearance of Phoenix Dawn.
Because the demon was resurrected by her mother’s nemesis, its form and nature were identical to hers in the dragon’s perception, though exotically different to human eyes.
Blaze never realized that he had been thrown off the scent and cut loose on Phoenix Dawn.


Phoenix Dawn darted through the maze seeking to elude the dragon that Ash had unwittingly roused from her subconscious mind.
In the process she found herself confronted with the deadly minions of the arch-wizard at every turn.
She even confronted the demon, now unbound, and sacrificed her precious rings to escape.
Naked, save for the powers of her mind, she resorted to pitting these threats against one another.
Demons and undead proved no match for the dragon, but they slowed it down and bought her time to run.
Just as she began to think she was home free, however, the dragon ambushed her.


Phoenix Dawn raced down a passage, thinking the dragon long since lost track of her, and unwittingly dropped into an open shaft.
As she fell, she could see that the lower end of the shaft was flooded.
The dragon exploded up out of the water as she descended, but Phoenix Dawn narrowly avoided its flashing jaws.
The dragon flailed around as she plummeted into the freezing water.
Phoenix Dawn swam for her life, darting around the thrashing beast looking for a way out.
At some point, she felt the dragon’s teeth dig into her and she was dragged under, where her head got bashed against a submerged protrusion.
She blacked out, dismal images of herself slithering down its throat flickering through her horrified brain.


However, her phoenix nature made her partially immune to the normal effects of blooding, instead of becoming a dragon, she became twinned, and the dragon that blooded her took on an independence from Blaze, becoming Flame and exploiting the forms gleaned from Phoenix Dawn.
What happened was a combination of dragon initiation and phoenix initiation.
In the dragon initiation of a phoenix, the projection used in a dragon initiation acted as a cross platform for a dual initiation.
The fatal conclusion of the dragon initiation allows the phoenix to slip free of the initiation, by way of resurrection.
However, having been devoured, the projection was seized in a phoenix initiation.
The blooded dragon was consumed in the flames of the phoenix, and reborn as a twin to that phoenix, granting the dragon aspect of the projection the independence of a phoenix.
As the dragon projection sustained the slain initiate through the transition to the dragon state, the phoenix was also twinned in the pyre.
In order for the dual initiation to be fully resolved, the initiated dragon and phoenix had to return to and merged with the original dragon and phoenix, allowing them to incorporate the newly awakened potentials.


Blaze had sensed the entire pursuit somewhat abstractly, while he focused on his effort to rescue the surviving members of the party.
He finally felt contact as Phoenix Dawn was incinerated in the belly of the dragon, and just as abruptly felt that part of himself cut off.
Something passed into him, and he reached out once more and felt the rift itself slip into his grasp.
In spite of his furious struggle to arrest the rupture, he still took note of the images that burned themselves into his soul, which were clearly, to his mind, images of the friends he feared lost and an enemy he hoped slain.


Phoenix Dawn was shocked to awake engulfed only in water and thrashed her way to the surface of the flooded shaft where she had, for a moment, believed she had died.
She was surprised to note that she had assumed her female aspect again.
Somehow, she dragged herself out of the shaft and collapsed in the passage from which she had fallen, totally exhausted.


Details of Confrontation and Association

The phoenix, which shared her soul and was her one true companion through life, was drawn by her dying thoughts, overcoming at the end the imperative Phoenix had impressed upon her to hide from the Damned.
As Phoenix died, she descended from the heavens, diving into the spring that had become her grave.
She emerged, transformed into her twin and bearing her lifeless body from the depths.
Because of what she was, and what we were to each other, it seemed at first that this was the resurrection Phoenix had envisioned.
Phoenix had always known of her intelligence, and so Phoenix would not have been surprised at her immediate grasp of the powers of speech.
It was easy for her to give the Damned the impression she was her, for her life and experiences had always been reflected in her mind.
She was her familiar after all.
She was not, however, her.
Due to the presence of the Damned, and the confrontation that she met on the shores of Dragon’s Bath, the few precious moments in which it would have been possible to resuscitate her were wasted.
After a long struggle, in which her familiar vainly tried to dodge the spray from the chisuiiton, the magical artifact was captured and plunged into the bottom of the newly made spring of drowned girl.
Only then was her familiar able to confront the Damned and explain their stupidity--her death had been needless.
Phoenix could have been dredged from the united waters and revived without any adverse effect upon the newly created spring, but the foolish men had not even considered the possibility.
Worse, their insane determination to lock the phoenix into her new form, in the hopes of taking her as a bride, had sealed her fate.


She swore on the spot to kill any man who dared to claim her, reminding them all that she was no less a phoenix for being a human girl.
She forswore vengeance for her death as well, claiming that her loss was enough tragedy to mark this ill-fated day, and more death would not help their soul rest.
Taking the witness from the Amazon tribe and accompanying her back to her village, she carried her body to its final resting place.


There, before the elders, she explained that Phoenix had been her chosen--a product of thousands of years of selective breeding, and the first human incarnation of the phoenix's eternal soul.
Through the bizarre turn of events, now the phoenix herself was embodied in her chosen human form, but a part of her--the part Phoenix had been--had been trapped by the magic of Dragon’s Bath.
As long as the spring was preserved, there was a hope for the phoenix to recover what was lost--not the form, for clearly, she now possessed that, but the spirit--and most important, the mind--of Dawn.
It might take thousands of years for the phoenix to figure out how to recover that missing part but recover it she must--it was the key to her soul's potential.


The Amazons swore to preserve the spring and to aid the phoenix in recovering her--as well as guarding her secret.
The phoenix lingered long enough to master the locked union, and once she controlled the transformation, she took wing.
Her destination was her home, where she conveyed the news of her death to her family and assumed the role that would have been left to her had Phoenix returned in failure.


Key Variant

The unique perspective, the understanding of herself, the very conception of herself that had cemented her dual existence as Dusk and Dawn and firmly seated the consciousness of her soul was born in that eternal moment.
Eve lived a life of her own in that moment, one in which Eve was named both Dusk and Dawn, growing up as her father's son and her mother's daughter.
Eve still wondered if it was a dream or a separate reality which melded into the shadows of the one in which she had conceived of herself.
It was a world where Eve took Dusk's place as the reincarnation of Dawn, who was not resurrected from the spring, but instead sucked into her infant mind where she merged seamlessly into her.
A world where Dawn truly died, and where Dusk was never truly born.
A world in which Eve had to be her own person, and a life which allowed her to emerge from the shadow of the duality that had defined her understanding of herself.


This alternate path sprung from the world-thread Eve already knew.
In that world, her mother had resisted the impulse to leave her wedding ring safe in her guest room at the beach.
That day, as she lounged in a secluded cove, she was abducted by a group of strange men who took her by surprise and hauled her off the beach.
For a moment she was at a loss, but suddenly her abductors stopped to examine her more carefully as sunlight glinted off the band around her finger.
With great disappointment, they observed that she might already be married, and she wasted no time confirming that, promising that her husband would hunt them down and avenge her.
To her surprise, they simply sighed and apologized for disturbing her, saying that the prince would not try to claim another man's wife.
She got no further explanation than that and was left alone.
Six months later, Eve was born, a beautiful, grey-eyed, red-haired daughter, whom her mother named Dawn, in honor of her first ancestor.
Her failing grandmother had lived to see her, and she had time to confide several family secrets in her mother, concerning a legacy Eve stood to inherit, before she died that night.
In Dusk's history, that great lady had died of a mysterious heart attack on the third day of her mother's incarceration on Togenkyo Island.
Apparently, Grandmother's death had more to do with the preservation of her mother's womanhood than her pregnancy with her--or rather, Dusk, in that world.
Grandmother had died ensuring that Dusk would live and never had the chance to pass on the family legacy to Ember.


Coal was greatly disappointed when both Ember and Mist gave birth to daughters, and his dreams of uniting the schools through marriage were shattered.
Ember tolerated only a week of drinking and lamenting from the two men.
She confronted the two of them with a discovery she made while studying the records accompanying her daughter's legacy.
She pointed out that her daughter was a direct descendant of Dawn, a daughter of the most noble lord in the history of the Clan.
In fact, aside from Ember, Umber, and his daughters, she was the only direct descendant of the founding and head family alive.
Technically, Dawn united the two families in herself.
This gave the two men pause.
The agreed that Ember was correct, unfortunately, Dawn was a girl.
Ember scorned their misogyny, stating that if she had been a boy she probably would not have stood to inherit a mysterious legacy in China.
Coal had always suspected that Ember's family had some great wealth stashed away somewhere, and he resolved on the spot to find out what this great legacy was and how to get his hands on it while the child was young enough to need a power of attorney to manage her fortune.


All the same, the two men still lamented the lack of a proper heir to their schools.
So, the following night as they were drowning their sorrows, they confided in a friend and fellow disciple of the Masabetsu Kakuto Ryuu.
He was inarguably the best student the school had ever had, and unfortunately the least morally corruptible of the three.
Jinx had taught the man more than he even realized trying to bend him to his knee and then dismissed him as a failure once if became clear that the man did not tolerate and would not emulate his master's lecherous and larcenous ways.
Just the same, Coal and Umber both admired the man and his abilities.
He announced that he himself had recently been gifted with a fine son, who he intended to train as his heir.
He confided that his wife did not approve of him deciding the boy's destiny for him, but he felt that he could sneak most of the training past the boy's mother.
He would be a master second to none if his father had to train him without his even noticing it was happening.
Umber and Coal blinked at that, but imagined that if anyone could accomplish it, Rain's father was the man.
Umber and Coal consulted each other drunkenly and proposed that Dawn be named the heir to the combined School, and thus be engaged to Rain, uniting all three schools.
Umber would provide the dojo as her dowry, Coal naturally provided the girl herself, and Rain would be the Heir to the combined arts.
Rain's father debated silently, thinking of his wife's injunction against deciding his son's life for him, but picturing Ember, and hearing that the girl took entirely after her mother, he felt that the boy could hardly do better than Dawn.
He agreed to the arrangement, stipulating that the whole deal rested on his son's decision.
His mother would insist, and furthermore, she would not allow the matter to be brought up until the boy was old enough to make such a decision on his own.
Umber and Coal agreed to his terms and then went home to announce the good news to their wives.


Coal too took an interest, looking at the legends contained therein far more seriously than Ember.
It seemed to him that Dawn's legacy might be a different kind of wealth than he had first dreamed of.
If he was correct, her legacy might be Arts long lost to mortal men.
When Ember came to him and explained that it would be necessary for them to go to China to find out if Eve was fit to inherit the legacy, he surprised her by insisting that they waste no time.
For once in his life, he managed to earn and at the same time save a substantial amount of money to fund the expedition.
Eve was only eight months old when the adventure started.
Eve was only a month older when her life was forever changed.


The instructions left for her mother required that Eve be taken to the Jokezetzu Village and presented to the Amazon Council of Elders.
Her mother, and every first-born daughter before her had been subjected to the same ordeal.
On the way, we passed Dragon’s Bath, which had been mentioned in the legends her parents had perused.
It being a legendary training ground, Ember was not surprised when Coal announced his intentions to visit the site.
While Eve was being presented to the Elders, Coal had gone and accosted the Guide in the Valley of Accursed Springs.
Armed with the many stories and legends written by the temple maiden who had forsaken her name and founded her mother's line, he carefully verified the nature of the curses and the water drawn from the chisuiiton.
The Guide was astonished to be visited by so well informed a petitioner and quickly fell for Coal's story of a boy who had evinced the symptoms of a Dragon’s Bath curse.
This boy he had invented turned into a girl whenever splashed with cold water and was greatly distressed at his bizarre transformations.
He announced that he had investigated on behalf of the stricken family, seeking a way to restore the boy's manhood or make him permanently a girl.
Since he did not know what the boy's decision would be, he was obligated to acquire both water from the nanniichaun and water from the chisuiiton.
The Guide accommodated him, explaining that there were others who had sought both, and often enough that he kept such supplies on hand.
He happily informed Coal that he had just received a fresh supply of chisuiiton water the day before, so he was certain it was full potency.


Coal returned to the village with his burdens well after dark, eluding the village sentries with a skill his Master would have been proud of.
Fearing he might only have one chance, and having prepared in advance for the possibility, he snuck into her room and bathed her first in the nannichaun water followed by the chisuiiton water.
He was counting on the fact that he had assumed responsibility for her bathing and changing and performed these duties so faithfully mother left them entirely to him, to prevent her from discovering her transformation until it was far too late to go back and try to undo it.
Unfortunately for him, he stayed up all night basking in her new manhood and did not wake the following day.
Her mother rose early and carried her out to face her testing.
The Elders took her mother and Eve to Dragon’s Bath where Eve was baptized in the nyannichaun.
It was a simple rite, and having been a water baby, Eve was not disturbed in the least by her brief swim.
The Elders then returned to the village and explained to her mother how the legacy would be tested.
She was surprised, thinking that the test had already been done.
They explained the legend of the Drowned Girl and the Phoenix, and how the girl had been bred by the phoenix to embody the phoenix herself in human form.
Thanks to the creation of the spring, the phoenix had acquired human form, but the part of her soul she had invested in the girl who had been sacrificed to create it had remained trapped in the spring.
Ever since, each incarnation of the phoenix had returned to try and reclaim that missing part.
The day before, Ember had been required to reveal what her mother had taught her--the manifestation of her phoenix form.
She was now required to teach her daughter how to assume that form and encourage her to delve inside herself to unlock another form, a form the Drowned Girl had been able to assume--the form of a tiger.
If Eve had recovered the missing part of her soul from the spring, Eve should have been able to manifest that form, once she knew the secret of finding and unlocking it.
Ember was commanded to send her back to the village fifteen years hence to demonstrate her possession of that form or confirm that she did not.


Her mother returned from that meeting and took her into the bath to warm her up.
Since her dip in the spring, Eve had returned to being female, but on contact with the hot water of the bath Eve reverted to her new male form.
Ember could not contain her shock.
The Elders flocked to her shriek and confronted the discovery that Eve had turned into a boy.
For a moment there was confusion and disbelief, for the day before Eve had been subjected to tests to ensure she was naturally female.
The fact that hot water turned her into a boy seemed impossible to explain.
Ember did not need to wonder.
She dragged her husband out of his bed and confronted him in fury.
In fear for his life, Coal confessed to his actions, asserting in his own twisted logic that the secret of Dragon’s Bath had to be the secret legacy, one which would turn a worthless daughter into a son and heir--one simply needed to have great powers of perception like his own to realize it.
This announcement, which would not have gone over well in any society, almost got him skinned alive in the amazon village.
The man's skill as a martial artist, combined with Ember's natural authority, and incredible gift with the sword, at least sufficed to raise her mother's perceived status as an honorary amazon.


The women turned from punishing Coal to assessing the consequences of his actions.
The matriarch, Ash, sadly announced that too much magic had already bound itself to her, to risk any more in a futile search for a cure was simply madness.
The union of the nyanniichaun had been able to affect her as if Eve were a natural boy, thanks only to the fact that her first union had been locked.
As curses did not mix, the first union had been supplanted by the second, and the magic of that first union, and the chisuiiton merely added to that of the second union.
On the plus side, the initial transformation worked counter to the second, so 

Ash also confided that with enough training and discipline Eve might even attempt to tame the union, powered up as it was.
Such an effort was the only true way for the union to be overcome, which was the secret of the training ground.
Ancient peoples had greatly valued the ability to obtain different forms, and the training ground had been used, even refined and cultivated, for that purpose for thousands of years.
It was exceedingly rare now for anyone to even suspect the possibility, or to even think to inquire about it.
Those who did had shown the necessary promise of intelligence to be guided in the proper direction.
Ember and herself, as the living reincarnations of a soul intimately acquainted with the ancient aesthetic arts, were specially entitled to the confidence they had received in this matter.


Because she was never exposed to the taint of Togenkyo, both Eve and her mother retained their natural hair color throughout their lives.
Eve was just as grey eyed and red-headed in male form as she was in her natural female form.

Her mother had explained the legacy to her when Eve was younger.
Eve knew that Eve would have to go to China and present herself to the Elders of Jokezetzu to find out if Eve truly was who Eve was supposed to be.
Eve had expected to go with her mother, but her father preempted her by announcing their departure.
He brushed aside her questions and explained that he wished to take advantage of the fact that we had to go anyway to squeeze in some special training on the way.
He assured her that he would settle the matter with her mother, saying she could join them there at the appropriate time.
Of course, he notified her in such a way that she had almost no chance of intercepting them in time to interfere with his plans.
Coal had decided that it would be best to split her in two, and he had enough knowledge about Dragon’s Bath to see how it might be possible.
He had dispatched a letter to the Guide and inquired about the effect of dropping a united individual into the spring of drowned twins, which he had heard several stories about during his first visit.
He was satisfied with the answer.
That spring was one of the few exceptions to the general rule.
Normally, curses did not mix, however, the spring of drowned twins had in the past proven to separate the two forms of the united individual, each possessing the mind of the original person.
Coal had not been able to figure out a way to honor the two marriage agreements, and the time was close at hand when both would have to be confronted.
He feared the prospect of consulting her or her mother about it but honestly felt that it was the best for her.
When we arrived, Eve had no suspicions.
Eve had learned about Dragon’s Bath when Eve was old enough to understand the truth about her strange ambisexuality.
As far as Eve was concerned at the time, it was simply the last in a series of training grounds and establishments her father had dragged her to in a whirlwind tour of the mainland.
Once in the midst of sparring with her father, however, Eve suddenly connected the name to the story and panicked.
Her fear was that her father had some plan to dump her in the spring of drowned boy and "cure" her of her girl form.
Eve extended the wings of her mind, ensuring that under no circumstances would Eve fall to the springs below, and finished the move Eve was executing as the thought occurred to her.
Her father fell into the spring of drowned panda, but Eve evaded his next attack, having anticipated what Eve would see next.


Eve lost her temper and chased him around the entire valley planning to pound some sense into his now thicker skull.
Eve never even noticed as Eve knocked a boy off the cliff and into the springs below.
Eve lost sight of her father around the next bend and spent the next hour or so chasing shadows.
Her father had slithered down the face of the cliff and spotted a little black piglet struggling to shore nearby.
Guessing Eve might be gone for some time, he headed back to the guide's house for a quick lunch, while Eve worked her anger off in fruitless pursuit.
The pig had already escaped from his certain devouring, regained his humanity, was educated in the specifics of his union, and lost in the wilderness in a fruitless quest to find his backpack and clothing when Eve returned to confront her father.
Her father opted to give her a bit more time to calm down after taking one look at her.
Eve simply ignored him after the first waste of breath, dousing herself with cold water to wash away the film of sweat from her exertions, and asked the guide for directions to Jokezetzu.
He expressed great distress at the evidence of her transformation, assuming Eve had only just been united.
Eve decided not to explain and urged him to take her to the amazon village.
Hopefully, her mother would be there, and she could deal with her father.
Eve simply wanted to get away from those accursed springs before her life got any more complicated.


From there, things got very complicated, as Eve quickly fell into the pattern of events which defined the corresponding next two years of the original Dusk's life.
Thanks to her father and that bottomless pit he called a stomach, Eve found herself being challenged to a duel over the food we had eaten.
Eve had unconsciously started nibbling on a pork bun her father had thrown at her to get her attention while Eve was watching the tournament that was going on before them.
Upon knocking the girl out of the fight, and receiving a kiss on the cheek, the Guide grabbed her and urged her to flee for her life.
On the way, he explained the kiss of death thing to her, and Eve spent the next couple of months constantly on the run from the girl Eve came to know as Tiger.
Eve could not believe that Eve was being run off by the very people who had insisted on her presence.
At the same time, Eve was dealing with an unexpected blow to her world view.
The guide had explained the mechanics of the curses to them before leaving their company, and for some reason Eve had never really heard the full story of her own cursing.
Faced with the evidence, and her father's exploitation of her ignorance, Eve believed at that time that her mother had lied to her all along.
Because cold water turned her into a girl, Eve assumed that Eve had to have originally been a boy.
Her father encouraged that assumption.
Thanks to Tiger's relentless pursuit, we fled all the way back home to Japan.
Instead of returning to her mother's home, he took her to the dojo and confronted her with the marriage agreement between him and Umber.
Eve was still in shock over the "discovery" Eve had made, and while Eve could not believe her mother would do that to her, Eve was afraid to confront her over it.


Due to circumstances, her father and Eve revealed their curses right up front.
With her father's union for comparison, the conclusion was obvious.
Drama, who had been thrilled to see her again, since Eve had arrived as "Dawn", was simply devastated.
To then find herself engaged to the boy she had believed to be her best friend, and a girl like herself was simply more than she could handle.
She assaulted her on the spot, smashing a table over her head and knocking her out cold.
Eve tried to explain that Eve had always believed Eve was a girl and had been raised to keep her union a secret, and had only now discovered the truth, and that only made it worse somehow.
Not only was she angry with her, for turning out to be a boy, she was sick with grief for her, imagining her all-too-real horror at discovering Eve was not a girl.
She could not stand the very thought of being engaged to her, it felt like a betrayal of her best friend to even think of it, but for her, it was the excuse Eve was using to stay away from her mom, so Eve just kept her mouth shut about it.
In her own mind, Eve thought it somehow sick and cruel for their fathers to do this to Drama.
Eve had had a lifetime to adjust to her oddity.
Worse, no matter how the facts presented themselves, Eve really did not want to embrace her "manhood".
Eve only wanted to go back to being Drama's best friend.
Unfortunately, there seemed to be this strange chemistry between them.
The next two years of her life seem to blend almost seamlessly with those of the real Dusk.
The differences are subtle.


Ash received her mother a few days after her hasty departure and Ash figured out that the girl Tiger was out to kill was in fact her.
She had not been present at the confrontation and had only learned of it later when Tiger did not come home.
Ash considered the situation carefully.
According to Ember, Eve had manifested not only the tiger form, but a whole host of unique and powerful abilities.
Ash listened to her tale and concluded that Tiger was not likely to succeed in her efforts to kill her and was more than likely to get into a fight with her in her male form.
Given such an event, she would likely be defeated and then give her the kiss of marriage.
Ash shocked her mother by announcing that the best option was to allow Tiger to kill her, upon which she would peacefully return to the village and trouble her and her family no more.
Ember was apoplectic, until Ash reminded her that, for all Eve had been born in human form, Eve was a phoenix, like Ember.
Eve could be expected to rise from death the way mere mortals rose from sleep.
Neither Ember, nor Eve had ever considered the possibility.
Ember asserted that her mother had not risen from death, and she was also a phoenix.
Ash pointed out that she had died after Eve was born; a phoenix had two options, resurrection or rebirth.
If Eve had a daughter of her own, Ember would then be likely to die, to maintain the balance.
Of course, if Eve truly lived up to the legacy of the phoenix, Eve would quite likely transcend the mortal plane of existence, at which point Ember would become truly immortal.


Impulses for Awakening

In "Dusk and Dawn" Phoenix lived her second life, in which Phoenix was a son marked by a strange destiny.
At the age of sixteen, Fate and Destiny drew her back to the Sacred Spring.
Phoenix was as proud of her manhood in this second life as Phoenix had been of her womanhood in her first.
The reawakening of her female spirit, and the imposition of her original body tested her mind and soul over the next year, the young man Phoenix was at present fighting with the spirit of the young woman Phoenix had been.
For the part of her that was Dawn, it was as if no time had passed.
Even as Phoenix died wondering what it would have been like to be a boy, Phoenix woke up in the part of her that was Dusk's mind, stunned by the memories of the life Phoenix had lived as a boy.
Her shock at her transformation into a girl allowed her, as Dawn, a moment to orient herself and find purchase in Dusk's mind.


At the same time, the strange dichotomy of lives lived forced her to take a third perspective simply to sort it out.
As Dawn had recognized before, his soul was hers, and more, his humanity and sexuality were both compliments to hers.
The other half she had never found in her life had come and rescued her from her timeless grave.
She embraced him, remembering her premonition of resurrection, seizing control of the body she well knew and struggling for the surface for the sweet breath of life.
Phoenix was looking at her hands, stunned to be alive, when the words a man nearby was speaking penetrated and Phoenix understood what he was saying.
No sooner than Phoenix did, the part of this new her that was Dusk shoved her and the part of her that was Dawn back and took control of his female body, not even noticing the new personalities within him.


Phoenix could do nothing but observe, sinking back into the first perspective in which Phoenix was Dawn, digesting a new history, and gradually Phoenix became transfixed.
Phoenix identified with Dawn instinctively, but even Dawn would forget she was when he was conscious.
Phoenix never realized Phoenix was lost in Dawn, and as Dawn Phoenix was often lost in Dusk only remembering herself as he lost himself in dreams.
Phoenix seemed to be the only constant in his dreams, and yet he seemed oblivious of her, no matter how hard Phoenix tried to communicate with him.
In her dream like existence, Phoenix too was affected by the union of Dragon’s Bath.
Hot water turned her into a boy, and Dusk often dreamed of hot water.
It took her a long time to realize that Dusk often became transfixed by her during dreaming, a prisoner of her mind as much as Phoenix was of his in the waking world.
Phoenix eventually realized that Phoenix was more than two sides of the same coin.
There was some universal element that divided her into this duality while maintaining the unity of her awareness.
He was her, founded on the understanding that he was a boy, and Phoenix was him, founded on the understanding that Phoenix was a girl.
Accepting the union was hard on both of them, because it seemed to threaten the very understanding of their selves.
It was not possible for them to cope, or even begin to communicate, until two new doors opened in their minds.
We had both been irreversibly changed by the intimacy of their embodiment by then.
Save for the certainty of who we were originally, we had become twin embodiments of the same person, and a new person emerged as the understanding of their strange coexistence.
A person rather confused, Phoenix must admit, over her strange duality.
A person who was both Dusk and Dawn, with no name of her own, disturbed by the unshakable conviction that she was a girl torn by the obligations imposed by the understanding that she was living a boy's life.
She was the awakened consciousness that Phoenix, as Dawn or Dusk, could never have possessed--the identity of their soul.


From the moment Phoenix, as Dusk, fell into the spring, Phoenix had ceased to be a man as surely as Phoenix had ceased to be a woman upon drowning.
Taking into account the presence of Dawn and their twin, Phoenix might as well say Phoenix ceased to be Dusk.
Phoenix had become the focus for a new state of being in which Phoenix would become part of the eternal embodiment of her soul.
Being ignorant of her part in this evolution, and given the precedence which circumstances gave her, Phoenix was pretty well blinded to the truth by her own sense of self-importance.
It gnawed at her mind how seductive and tempting it was to embrace her union, which should have told her something about her true identity.
Phoenix fought against it, however, conditioned by her father's ceaseless efforts to make her a "man among men" and the cultural views and peer pressure which implied that any acceptance or willingness to embrace her womanhood could only be a betrayal of herself.


Her confusion and frustration contributed, with the strange personal magnetism Phoenix had always possessed, to generate a storm of chaos centered on her life and into which the people Phoenix loved and respected all became embroiled.
Phoenix simply did not know what to do with herself.
Phoenix was terrified, because Phoenix dared not let on how the ordeal was affecting her.
Whenever Phoenix even considered it, the pressure would only increase.


It was not long before Phoenix did not have a clue what Phoenix was.
It did not take long for her to become very confused as to who Phoenix really was.
In her dreams, Phoenix was this girl Dawn, and when Phoenix was awake Phoenix was this boy Dusk.
Phoenix did not know how to be both at the same time, and it seemed like Phoenix was being torn between her desire as one not to become the other.
Phoenix protested her manhood ceaselessly, in spite of her own mounting doubts, because at the very least it was a clear obligation to which Phoenix had been fearfully committed by a suicide pact.
Musk, Phoenix truly believed, was the living embodiment of reverse psychology.
Phoenix can trace all the best and worst things about herself to his tender tutelage.
It is hardly surprising that her views of manhood and womanhood were so warped, given that Phoenix felt Phoenix could not trust her instincts in either regard and Musk presented her with a somewhat eccentric model of masculinity and femininity, nor is it shocking how desperately Phoenix held to her denial in place of the truth.
Phoenix was pretty confident that professing the truth would provoke her loved ones into killing her.

The truth was constantly staring her in the face, and her inability to deal with it--in particular her suspicions about what would reward any confidences Phoenix might make--drove her away from the very people Phoenix loved most.
The closer Phoenix needed to be to someone, the greater the gulf Phoenix or her circumstances would create between them.
At this point, Phoenix understood this unconsciously.
Phoenix was too terrified to even think about any of it.
Deep within, her mind was racing, but at the surface Phoenix was paralyzed, and thinking in general became taxing.
Phoenix did not care to have anyone else think too hard on it either.
Phoenix unconsciously presented herself as the kind of person no one could even conceive of imagining the possibilities let alone exploring them.
Phoenix became a caricature of herself, afraid to show her true self to anyone.
Not even herself.
Phoenix was so confused, Phoenix couldn't even admit to herself that Phoenix was in love, certainly not that Phoenix was in love with more than one person.
Phoenix was always under this pressure to choose, but there was never simply one obvious choice.


Impulses of Awakening and Recognition

To facilitate Dreamer's adoption of Dawn, Dagger set out to establish a history for a girl who could reasonably have drifted through life as an orphan with no notion of who she really was.
It was only necessary to create the illusion that she had lived in the real world, attending school in various places before turning up in Dream Gate, where at least two years of history was already established, with other supporting details built up using various old fashioned and newfangled techniques.
Dreamer was able to provide stacks of photographs of herself and her mother in various stages of growing up which were timeless enough to suggest that Dawn had grown up in the real world and had visited various places equally timeless and well recognized.
To that physical evidence, she created a list of public institutions with records databases where supporting information could be entered.
Dagger was thorough, and very creative.
She had called in many favors to create her list and instruct her in how to access those computers.
The events that followed were elaborated in The Accidental Goddess.
It was not her fault that one of the back door addresses was glitched and accidentally identified a back door to an unworldly personnel database.
Nor was it her fault that a certain young goddess was debugging that system as she tried to access it and inadvertently routed and authorized the connection Dagger was making.
Ultimately it was no one's fault that the system she accessed appeared to Dagger and herself as an online entertainment/role playing site.
Dagger simply shrugged and decided to have fun with it, since there was no reason for the girl-she was inventing not to have an established interest in computer-based amusements.
Phoenix let her get away with her joke, naming her the "Goddess of Sex" in the profile she was creating, since there was a certain poetic justice.
Phoenix still considered Martial Arts to be her primary devotion, and Dawn was as devoted to the Magical Arts, but after all we had been through, Sex was an appropriate sphere of influence for them to claim, since we had certainly had a full initiation to both sides of that divide.
Phoenix tried to remember that after what happened next, when Phoenix thought of what Phoenix had gotten herself into.


When Dagger finished creating the profile, they were surprised when the system requested they indicate the present location of the subject, and quite shocked when it digested the information she entered and produced a graphic display of the house in which everyone present was clearly indicated.
We confirmed that the positioning of the people in the house was accurate and agreed that we were too creeped out to continue playing with whatever we had stumbled onto, when Dagger's finger twitched on the mouse.
She had been holding it over the icon representing her, tracing the movement as Phoenix moved to test their suspicion.
The system requested we stand by for "reality update" and there was nothing we could do.
Phoenix was gripped by a power Phoenix shy from describing, and once the world settled back down again, and Phoenix had recovered from the shock of realization, Phoenix was the new Goddess of Sex, Class One, Category One, Unlimited.
Fate and Destiny had played their hands, and Phoenix would have no choice but to accept it.
Oh, Phoenix was offered the chance to back out, but Kami-sama himself endorsed her apotheosis, and He forced her to confront the simple truth, while Phoenix was hardly perfect, Phoenix was an Artist of great integrity, and Phoenix could do more good as a Goddess than Phoenix could as an Artist.
In the time since, an unusually long amount of time given the ordeal Phoenix put herself through the first day after her rebirth, Phoenix had come to understand even more the full magnitude of the responsibility Phoenix had assumed, and surprisingly her fitness for it.


In the presence of Kami-sama, the Almighty, Phoenix was reborn as a goddess.
Her rebirth came at his touch, as he filled her with himself, infinite, and eternal--a moment of omniscience he called the Final Understanding.
Phoenix was shaken, to say the least, but apparently Phoenix proved far more resilient than most who had endured the same thing.
Her illumination was so intense, and overwhelming, Phoenix came away unconscious of what had happened to her in her Father's embrace.


-----

