Series_20081123-1838.txt


-----
Threads


-----
Overview--a breakdown of key events developed from the pool of ideas collected for this project.

A girl
...eclipsed a demon at seven
...returns to confront her childhood demons at seventeen
...meets a boy
...falls in love
...is possessed by the-demon-within during her blackouts
...bites the boy during a blackout
...confronts the boy bitten by her demon and turned into her twin
...helps the boy cope with being a girl

A boy-turned-girl
...assimilates the girl
...is raped by the demon
...slays the demon
...is possessed and eclipsed by the demon
...crosses the threshold


-----
Collected Threads

Aeirn, The Rift
Avatars
Unpromised
Demon Within
Slain Lover
Accidental Assassin
Threshold, Eve of Paradox


-----
Viable Threads


-----
On-common-origins_20070820-1206.txt

The common origin of the dragon and the phoenix.

In order to give both characters a common origin, in the sense of being unextraordinary in themselves, they would have to be completely disassociated from the roles of the dragon and the phoenix.

In effect, one would be just a player, and the other just a character.

As a result, few, if any, of the existing themes and ideas could be retained and those that could be retained would have to be completely revised.

Regardless of what path is followed, the child was born a normal girl in other splinters of reality.



A possibility exists for having the game, with the intervention of a demon, serve as the means for creating a complimentary incarnation of the protagonist.

In effect, a player falls victim to demonic possession and ends up reincarnated in the game just before play is suspended allowing the captive minds to be liberated--because the demon is in stasis during their retrieval.

The new incarnation grows and matures during the interruption, as the game is advanced to introduce a new campaign to deal with the demon problem.

This is a completely separate and unique premise that could be used to set up the eve of paradox threshold story.

A player who is male in The Aegis but plays a female in Aeirn is possessed by a demon who grants his secret wish.

"I wish I had been born like this" being the key phrase that the demon used to justify claiming the player's body in-game.

Of course, the player was simply ejected from the game, but not before the demon conceived and reincarnated the player as her daughter.

The game is suspended, and he is forced to prepare a new character for the new campaign--this time as a male, at the insistence of his companions, who found him too unnerving in a female role.

Of course, there is now a living, female incarnation of him native to Aeirn.



There are a few uncertain threads, and a tendency for him to not bother with the establishment phase, or to subject himself to it at the lowest level to avoid having to experience growing up as a boy all over again.

That underscores the need for the game to offer the option of objective and subjective character creation, development and establishment.

A story along these lines would deal with the legacy of her conception and the destruction of her mother, the legacy of that traumatic event leading into the introduction and interaction of the two incarnations, culminating in the moment when she assimilates him.

That story is also the preface to the eve of paradox.

This approach also reverts to the demon as the cause of her psychic trauma and his final displacement into Aeirn and his assimilation by her.

In the process, she gains access to the threshold interface and his knowledge of The Aegis.

This simplifies her acquisition of aegis related information, though it undermines her identity and origin as a girl.



Because an outside origin for the girl would undermine the story somewhat, either a two-stage incarnation or a division of a child with ambisexuality--a human familiar--would be better.

Since the alternate story now favors that option, a bridge between project approaches exists.

The only necessary correction would be a revision of the domain concept to address souls of creation, in plural.

The basis for which is already established.

Of course, the whole project can be simplified by just dealing with the child of a familiar.



-----
Splinters of Reality


-----
20081127_20081204-2308.txt

Among the options explored up to this point is a way to establish the main character as a boy and a girl in different splinters of reality and a way for them to be eclipsed and fused through interaction with the demon of the realm.

Previously, threads tended to be absorbed by the parents that were intended for the main character.

The advantage of establishing the two versions of the main character in splinter realms and bringing them together for the ordeal of the child of fusion is that ideas do not get displaced or repeated.

The consequence of the combined splinter incarnations and child of fusion threads is that a new incarnation of the protagonist is created in a process that displaces the parent incarnations.



The problem encountered using the splintered realms approach was that it eliminated the girl's family ties.

Most of her family was slain in the massacre and she was in no condition to identify them when she arrived in the boy's realm.

However, if her ability to rift walk is trained, it is reasonable for her to return to her native realm to find out what happened to her and learn about her origins.

The ability to rift walk is based on the psychic potential for manipulating the media of space, time and mind.

The lesser ability allows an individual to possess his or her splinter incarnations--though few consider the existence of, or contemplate possessing, a splinter of the opposite sex.

The greater ability allows an individual to cross the rift between splinter realms physically.



The-demon-within thread starts with the girl, but is based upon her psychic potential giving her the potential to touch--and cross--the threshold.

The trauma of her childhood forced her to call upon that potential.

The ordeal can still feature the assimilation of a demon created by the fall of the angel of the focus.

There are a number of specific details that need to be worked out.



Perhaps the greatest oversight in the development of this project has been a tendency to overlook one of its earliest inspirations.

Aeirn began as the setting for a story in which, among other things, the male and female incarnations of the same person meet and merge into one.

The mechanism for this was a manifestation of paradox, the rift.



Instead of pondering how those two ideas disintegrated, it is time to look at the ideas that have emerged to see how they are affected by the restoration of that inspiration.

Only recently, the cataclysm and the creation of the rift have been tied together as the climax of the purge, a conflict among the gods that marks the end of the age of creation and the beginning of the age of ruin.

In short, the demon that is the host of the realm was drawn into the conflict by the destruction of the soul that was its focus.

The rift is the manifestation of the shattering blow that splintered reality.



The splintering of reality provides an explanation for the existence of different versions of the same people.

In particular, it allows the vampire and were-tiger threads to be isolated yet based on the same character.

It even works out that the game construct exploits the splintering of Aeirn, which is potentially infinite, as if the splinters of reality were different servers.



The gods, by chance and choice, were scattered among the splinter realms.

They had the ability to cross the rift between splinter realms and used it to hunt or hide from each other in the contest that followed the purge.

The gods can be distinguished from angels and demons primarily by the nature of their introduction.

The angels of the realm are the personal demon of the inner gods.

They are fragments or fractals of the demon implanted in the souls of the eclipsed--artifacts of their possession.

The demons of the realm were originally angels, but they acted on the impulse to possess souls of their own and broke off from the host to fulfill it.



The girl's demon was the angel hosted in the focus; the destruction of its host soul prompted it to claim a new soul.

The fall of the first angel can be tied to the legacy of the touched.

Among the original inspirations for this project was the nemesis, a being responsible for the war of the gods who was annihilated, thrown into exile in the rift created by his destruction.

That idea did not evaporate; it was explored as a variation on the-demon-within thread.

To apply some of those ideas to the current project, some minor adjustments are required.

The concept of the touched is still applicable; although the demon's focus was destroyed, the mortal descendants of the exile inherited a sympathetic link to the demon.



The idea of a protege of the magus and follower of the god who attempted to breed an avatar of the god can be realized in the father.

In a sense, the father, who was himself a bit touched, was being influenced to provide the exile with a suitable host.

The critical revision concerns the nature of the exile.

In the current revision, it was the demon's focus that was destroyed provoking the demon and shattering reality.

As the soul expired, its ashes were scattered through the rift, the minds inhabiting it reduced to empty shells of thought.



The founder of the second age of magic had discovered that psychic ability was the key to both magic and miracles.

A prodigal student discovered that psychic ability was also the key to the rift.



The avatars arc provides a significant amount of material that works with the current breakdown, but there are other elements to be incorporated as well.

The-demon-within thread is a key part of the story and is usually established in a childhood tragedy, at which time the girl managed to eclipse the demon attempting to possess her.

The specific events need to be retailored to support the current version of the story.

For example, some of the integrated threads feature a strong and persistent relationship between the girl and her mother.

The usual foundation of the-demon-within thread is the massacre of her family.



What is certain is that the event happens when she is seven.

When she is seventeen, she returns home and is forced to confront her childhood demons.



It was always part of the initial inspiration for the boy to be a rift-walker, and the development of the story established a point where he and his father crossed over to a splinter of reality where he was born as a girl.

An option exists for the boy and his father to have crossed over earlier; the father ending up in a triangle relationship with the native version of himself and his lover.

The girl's mother was originally depicted in such a relationship.



It is possible that it was the girl who crossed over with her father following the death of her mother.

Her father was a rift walker, like his counterpart, and entered the rift to rescue his daughter when she fell into the rift to escape from the demon that was trying to possess her.

This approach causes the girl's mother to become eclipsed and take on the role of the goddess of mystery in the unpromised thread.

The girl's adversary is her mother's personal demon--her own is currently in possession of her body.

Her mother's demon seeks to seduce her into embracing the-demon-within her.

In her own world, the girl and her father were the only survivors of the massacre that wiped out their entire extended family.

In part, it was having nothing to return to that compelled her father not to try finding their way back home.



It was always part of the girl's thread that she possessed and used her psychic potential to eclipse a demon, establishing the-demon-within thread.

There are a number of explored options for defining the circumstances of her childhood trauma.

In both worlds, the mother was the protege of the father's mother.

Officially, the girl is an orphan and a protege of the boy's mother.

Her father was presented as his counterpart's twin, at his mother's insistence--to claim the girl as her own heir.



The-demon-within threads for the girl and the boy have resolved into a stable form in which her ordeal triggers his.

The only adjustment would be for the-demon-within to be a fragment of the demon of the realm, allowing her assimilation of that fragment to be a step toward assimilating the demon entirely, a credible threat--and opportunity--from the demon's point of view.

The point of allowing the demon to take possession of the girl's body is that it allows the boy to be turned into a familiar, thus gaining the ability to assume the girl's form.

The fact that being possessed allows the girl to experience life in another realm, and thus a completely different environment, is a bonus.

The method used to restore her to her proper self is a method that could be used to liberate Aeirn from whatever intelligence had harnessed it to exploit it as a game.

Of course, when looked at from the other side of the threshold, it could arguably destroy the entire world.



The unpromised arc initially featured background concerning her return home, an episode involving her education and household obligations passed on from her mother, who had fled from them.

Among the obligations she faces are the duties to her house and an arranged marriage.

The boy to whom she has been engaged is the son of the man her mother was supposed to marry, a pact between houses that had been put off for a generation.

The engagement the girl is thrust into does not need to involve her male incarnation.

In fact, the engagement is a threat to her relationship with him, or more accurately, her relationship with him is seen as a threat to her engagement.

The boy she is engaged to is actually a player character, as in the threshold thread.



The girl fell in with the wrong crowd while growing up.

Her amazing agility earned her an unwilling, street-wise apprenticeship in cat burglary, disguised initially as training in gymnastics, acrobatics and fighting known as shadow-dancing.

She does such a good job of obscuring her life as a thief that she somehow ends up with a reputation in the underworld as an unusually competent young assassin.



The boy the girl ends up engaged to was introduced through the game as an orphan.

Her father takes him on as his protege and heir to establish his own tradition in the art.

He employed the art and the skills of an assassin as a hunter of immortals, and taught them to the boy.

The boy took an interest in the girl when she became caught up in the world of assassins and immortals.



This approach also lends itself to a version of the wager, involving her in events that lead up to the ruins becoming the site for the trials, through her helping to reveal what is lurking within them.

It would involve her in events that end in her death--or possession by her demon and complete assimilation by her other half, incorporating elements of his transformation.

Both of them endure a trial of transformation as she struggles with being infected with vampirism and animorphism, eclipsed by her demon, redeemed by her other half and finally merging with him.


-----


The ideas tapped for this project have been in development for decades and each concept has many variations.

A girl possessed and eclipsed by a demon

This is the premise of the-demon-within thread in its mature form, the initial climax in the girl's story.

The girl's childhood trauma has long been associated with the-demon-within thread and many approaches depend on this context.

The details of her ordeal return to her as the demon strives to overcome her from within.



This struggle for possession presents an opportunity for the boy to gain the girl's form by becoming a familiar--it can also serve as a motive for immortals to cooperate to destroy her.

In one thread she confronts a boy bitten by the demon and turned into her twin.

The problem here is that this is essentially the establishing event in the demon familiar origin of a person who is divided into male and female incarnations; in order for this boy to be the girl's counterpart, something of this nature has to have already occurred.



She helps the boy cope with being a girl.

This was an original main thread--a boy-turned-girl--and can be adapted to resolve a childhood division or merge two splinter incarnations.

This thread has evolved as the complement of the-demon-within thread, exploring the boy's ordeal of gradually assimilating his female counterpart.



She is raped by the demon.

This is the crisis point of the conflict and the opening part of the climax of the-demon-within thread.

As a singular duality origin, this rape would result in the conception of the main character.

A conception under the present circumstances would be parthenogenic.



She slays the demon.

This is the turning point and escalation of the climax employing one of the oldest inspirations, the slain twin.

When the boy-turned-girl slew the demon, its body automatically reverted to its original female form in a desperate attempt to repair itself but the demon was still impaled.



She is possessed and eclipsed by the demon.

This is the revealed mechanism of the slain twin thread.

As its host body died, the demon took possession of the only other body available, leaving the girl's corpse to be discovered.



She crosses the threshold.

This element has been developed in several forms, each suitable for the main story line.

The ordeal she goes through here is potentially a book in its own right.

It can easily be developed as a sequel, however.



The original demon within thread involved a struggle for dominance; the girl's possession is intermittent, and the boy's transformation gives the demon a way to edge her out and force him to assimilate her.

Her assimilation leaves the demon in possession of her body, until her body is slain and the demon takes possession of his body.

Another benefit is that the-demon-within and the demon of the realm are separate entities.

This demon would have originated in the mind of an eclipsed soul of The Aegis and most likely would have fallen during the purge or the age of ruin.

The world within this demon is still taking shape, inspired by the dreams and memories of souls native to both aeirn and The Aegis.



A significant amount of the avatars story arc fits directly into this design, up to and including the possession and eclipse of the main character.

Even though there is an option to have the demon assimilated instantly, the experiences the main character has while eclipsed by the demon sheds light on how people from the realm of aegis gained access to the realm of aeirn.

This allows most of the unpromised story arc to be resurrected, up to and including the preparation of the main character to confront the demon and face destruction.

The follow-up to the unpromised arc is the threshold story arc, which is set up in the opening story.

Some characters and elements of the threshold can be introduced in the first book, along with characters and elements of the accidental assassin.


-----
Series_20030401-1421.txt

Tentative Order

Initiate Dusk	Serial	Dusk & Dawn
Eve of Paradox
Avatars			Serial	Ashes & Embers
Eye of Paradox
Initiate Dawn	Serial	Dawn & Dusk


-----
Unadapted_20081113-0211.txt

The demon originated in the domain of Aegis and the souls it captured gave rise to the domain of Aeirn in the demon's shadow.

The demon incorporated part of itself into the system as the goddess Aeai.



The purpose of the system the demon set up was to harvest souls of The Aegis.

As players, souls of The Aegis unwittingly created new incarnations of themselves into which they are drawn at death.



The point of collecting souls was to find a soul of its own.

Unfortunately, the demon was intent on assimilating the soul it sought, instead of allowing itself to be assimilated.



Branch 0--Eclipsed

-----

Once eclipsed by the demon, she found herself in limbo, lost in a nightmare wasteland that was a pale reflection of reality.

For her, the demon's realm was at first an incredibly lucid dream and potentially an eternal prison.



It takes her a while to navigate the wasteland nightmare that enveloped the world within.

In that ordeal, time seemed to have no meaning, but once she surfaces in the realm, things pick up.



The depths of the demon's mind was where the souls it collected were imprisoned, and the nightmare they shared evolved into a mortal realm.

The seed souls initially entered a kind of wasteland, a chaotic, shifting amorphea polarized by the surreal and the ideal.

Their thoughts and feelings created the world they existed in, an unending dream that was difficult to control because it was shared.



In time, they learned how to manipulate their reality, even as reality became stable through the influence of their offspring, replicating the pattern of their host realm and becoming the inner gods of the demon’s realm.

There, she encountered other lost souls, among them individuals who had turned their back on the lure of becoming gods of the inner realm to search for a way back to the realm of their origin.



Branch 1--Unadapted

-----

The cabal is a conspiracy of adversaries, each seeking to dominate and devour the demon in the hopes of becoming the soul of creation, each needing the help of others to make the demon vulnerable to such an assault.

This makes for an unstable alliance of opportunistic rivals at best.

They cooperate to create a situation to their advantage and then compete to exploit it.



This evolves into a plot, engineered by the inner gods or the lost souls, designed to draw the demon down where it could be confronted.

They would be pawns in an attempt at that scheme.

The architects of that plan would hunt them down and attempt to rouse the demon to fulfill their plot.



Branch 2--Unadapted

-----

If the parents cross the threshold and confront the demon externally in the domain, they eventually discover the demon was carrying their child--and because the child's soul had embraced the demon, or at least part of the demon--the goddess Aeai--the child could potentially become the soul of creation.

The demon assumed that it could not be assimilated by a human mind, in spite of the fact that Aeai was incorporated as the child's angel when she was assimilated.



The opening chapter in the story arc is the story of the assimilation of Aeai.

As the part of the demon embraced by the child's soul, Aeai becomes self-conscious as the mother of the first mortal incarnation of that soul, manifesting in the androgynous form abstracted from the two sexes her stolen body can assume--the form of an angel.



Aeai is assumed to be the demon when she is first confronted by the child's parents.

When they realize that she is an incarnation of the goddess, their discovery is passed on to the lost souls and inner gods that conspired to summon the demon by their agents in the Academy.



Aeai is also mistaken for a fallen angel by other fallen angels, fragments of the demon's psyche that had attached to stolen souls.

On one hand, the lost souls and conspiring inner gods continue to pursue Aeai as the means to attack the demon, while on the other hand, Aeai is pursued by the fallen, demons of Aeirn, intent on forcing her into their ranks.



The child's parents ally themselves with Aeai, helping to keep her adversaries from discovering her pregnancy or the true nature of her child.

One way to discourage the cabal's interest in Aeai was to convince them that she was indeed a fallen angel.

Unfortunately, this only encouraged the fallen to pursue the trio in order to recruit them into their web pacts and conspiracies.



The cabal eventually decides to test the theory of Aeai's fall, moving against her to see if she retains a tie to the demon that can be used to provoke it into asserting itself.

When this plot succeeds in arousing the demon, it tears into the conspiritors and eventually confronts the child.

Aeai summons the parents to the child's aid, but their intervention has an unintended consequence.

The demon's fixation on the child gave the survivors of its rampage a chance to slay it.



The slayers saw it as an opportunity to drive the demon into a weaker vessel, unaware that the demon had willingly possessed the child.

When they struck, they forced Aeai to dive into the child after the demon.

The demon, seeing Aeai as no threat, focused on devouring the child's psyche.

Aeai drew on the child's soul to oppose the demon, eclipsing the demon while the demon eclipsed the child.



The parents entered limbo to protect the child there.

Each parent provided the child a different focus; torn on either side between the parents and cut through the middle by the angel and demon, the child's psyche split.

The child was divided into male and female aspects, and this had the unexpected benefit of shattering the demon's mind.

Aeai remained in possession of the child's body while the boy and girl are led by their parents across the threshold.

The traumatic ordeal leaves each child with shattered memories and pieces of the shattered demon.



Aeai warns the parents that reuniting the two halves of the child would restore the demon.

In their divided state, the boy and girl might assimilate the demon instead.

They needed time to mature and become self-possessed before they could be reunited.

The parents take on the roles of mother and father, taking the girl and boy respectively and going separate ways.



Child Of Fusion - Demon Within--First Arc

-----

The demon of the realm plays a part in the manifestation of the child of fusion.
The mother was pregnant when the demon possessed her.
The father was bitten in a struggle with the demon.
The father is transformed into a twin of the mother.
The mother's body is consumed by the manifestation of the child.
The demon is forced to possess the father to escape the dying body.
The demon withdraws before the child becomes fully manifest.
The child of fusion awakes in a pool of blood.
...
The child of fusion sires a male incarnation of himself.
The child of fusion bears a female incarnation of herself.
The boy and girl are born into separate houses.
...
The child of fusion is possessed by an inner demon.
The demon is torn between the boy and girl when the child of fusion is slain.



Child Of Fusion - Demon Within--Second Arc

-----

The rapport between the boy and girl gives the demon a way to restore itself.
The demon exploits the girl's trauma, trying to possess her from within.
The demon exploits their most intimate rapport to seize the boy's body.
The girl's attempt to recover the boy's body goes awry.
The demon attempts to rape her.
The demon is slain in the struggle.
The body shifted to female form but it was not enough to heal the damage.
The demon escaped by possessing and eclipsing her.

-----


