av-0000-0-daughter-selves--min_20170210-2222.docx

Precis.

Daughter Selves is the opening segment of an open-ended series focusing on Av, also known as Phoenix Ember Avon-Morgan, and her aliases Phoenix Ember Avon-Nin ii, Phoenix Ember Avon-Nin i, Phoenix Ash Avon-Morgan and Arden Nin.

In this book, a mother’s enigmatic legacy is revealed to her daughters several years after her tragic death, forcing them to confront their own paradoxical nature. One of these daughters, betrayed by her own biology, is rudely forced to face her exotic alien heritage. The time had come for her to discover her racial identity and shed the individuality with which she had grown up among humans. Entering a world that she is ill-prepared to deal with, there is no possible way she could know that unlocking her sexuality would also bring about her own certain destruction. A legacy of the madness that had shattered her mind as a child. In truth, both girls are aspects of the same person, sharing an identity, a highly evolved mind, and a soul with each other—and a male aspect both had believed slain in a childhood tragedy. Before the three aspects leave their childhood behind, one last tragedy waits to befall them—a tragedy from which the seeds of paradox take root, transforming the existence of a soul named Phoenix.

Developmental material for this project includes but is not limited to, the material and notes for the stories originally called Avonlea, Avon mnao, daughter selves, dreaming alone, dreaming as one, and dreamer in the dream. The action continues in a daughter’s ruin, where the consequences of her deadly confrontation on the beach play out, complicating the biological necessity of her Avon union. Av passes every hope for her future on to her twin, but in return she becomes the focus of Ash’s attention.

Overview.

Overview Expansion.

Establishment—Phoenix Ember Morgan, Alexander Morgan, Phoenix Ember Nin I.

Encounters and Confrontations—Arthur Remington, Samuel Malthus.

Encounters and Confrontations—Aegis Security Intelligence Agency, Avatar Program.

Encounters and Confrontations—Joint Assembly—Aegis Senate, Avon Imperial Court.

Encounters and Confrontations—Dancer.

Encounters and Confrontations—Phoenix Ember Nin II.

Roommating.

Housemating.

Encounters and Confrontations—Passion.

Avon hospitality.

Encounters and Confrontations—Pleasure.

Encounters and Confrontations—Pain.

Encounters and Confrontations—Ash Ember.

Encounters and Confrontations—Coal.

Encounters and Confrontations—Ash.

Encounters and Confrontations—Dream.

Bedmating.

Encounters and Confrontations—Blade et al.

Encounters and Confrontations—Enigma, the Avon ‘Dai.

Bloodbath.

Arrest.

Arraignment.

Court.

Sentence.

^

Work in progress.

-----

Establishment—Phoenix Ember Morgan: the morning after her arrival. A recently graduated academy prep student, on her way to the academy, located in the Pacific Northwest, North American continent, Earth. Upon her arrival on Earth, she stopped by the place for her first visit since her mother’s death. Her mother and father had a private island residence in Puget sound, about ten minutes flight from the main campus on Vancouver Island. The eight-year term mentioned would in fact be spent entirely at the academy, with an obligatory eight-year tour in the psionic corps.

Phoenix Ember Morgan was haunted by the ghost of her mother, and the nightmares her combined traumas produced.

The house she was spending the night at was painfully familiar to her. She had been living there the last time she saw her mother alive. Her mother died in the service when she was barely eleven years old. While Phoenix Ember Nin had been a loving parent, she had also been very private about her history. In spite of the rapport they shared, Phoenix had never really known much about the woman who had given her birth, and in whose image she had been conceived. Phoenix understood that she had been involved in human-Avon relations; to the point where she had spoken the language and adopted the culture at home. She had become accustomed to it before she could speak. Alexander Morgan, her father, or at least the man her mother was married to when she had her, had accompanied Phoenix when the death of her mother and the awakening of her psionic ability forced her relocation to a psionic reservation. That was where she had thought she would be stuck until she became licensed. Within two years the Aegis security and intelligence agency (ASIA) discovered that she was a full spectrum class iii active and immediately drafted her into the avatar program. In the four years of accelerated learning at a military prep school and intense psionic training, she was also studying an exotic form of martial arts under her father. As a psionic, she faced a minimum of eight years at the academy, followed by a stint in the armed services to earn her license to practice psionics outside of military or reservation jurisdiction. In spite of her initial despair, she was actually looking forward to her term in the navy, and compared to what she had just gone through, the academy sounded like a dream. In the weeks approaching graduation she had begun feeling increasingly drained and lethargic. She had also experienced a heightened sensuality and almost constant state of arousal. Phoenix had fought off the symptoms of heat during the last year of competition but had been forced to withdraw from the gymnastics tour at last when the strain shattered her control over her psi, bringing the ASIA down on her head. Neither embarrassment, nor horror adequately described her shock at the way she had been subdued and transported back to her home reservation. She was lucky her shot at the academy had not been ruined. She had been a fool to assume that she had seen the last of those terror trips.

Encounters and confrontations—Arthur  Remington, Samuel Malthus.

Phoenix was snatched out of her home in the dead of night. Phoenix had been ambushed by a pair of asi agents and escorted off the island without explanation. Phoenix had been looking forward to beginning her first term in the naval academy on Earth. Phoenix wondered if she was being delivered to her own execution instead. As if they would give her this much time to think if they intended to kill her. Her guess was that the Aegis security and investigations agency had simply assigned a couple of agents to escort her to the campus, or at worst deport her back to a reservation. She did not think she had done anything wrong, but since when did that matter?.

Obviously, she was not being escorted to the campus. The three-day long drive had given her plenty of time to dwell on the circumstances which had brought her to this disturbing pass. Questions had been raised more than once in the past challenging her ability to control her power. She knew what would happen to her if those doubts were ever substantiated. She wondered who would notice if she never returned from this trip. Phoenix was an only child.

Encounters and confrontations—Aegis security intelligence agency, avatar program.

Phoenix reached her unnamed destination to confront several representatives of the three agencies that defined the existence of psionic actives within the Aegis. The psi corps, which had forced her relocation, was an integrated—more or less invisible—military service branch. More so than the marine corps, but it still operated under the wing of the navy. The psi corps drew its personnel from the growing population of psionic actives within the interstellar nation. The Aegis security and intelligence agency drew its own psionic resources from sports and culls of the psi corps. Psionics with unique or exceptional abilities. Active ASIA agents were known as avatars. It was only appropriate. avatars were the closest thing to gods the human race had ever known. They were not, however, the closest things to gods that existed in the universe. As Phoenix knew better than anyone. Which had everything to do with why they had summoned her to this meeting. Phoenix recognized six of the avatar recruits from her class—two young women, and four young men. Anastasia neve kohler

Morgan Erin Wildmuir

Christian Allan Temple

Mason Damon Drake

Michael Thomas Kinkade

Alexander James Maxwell

The seven of them were not new to the avatar project. For six years, they had been a “resource under development” at the olympia ap facilities on mediterra. There were ten other actives in the room—among them her father—all of whom were avatars serving out their military tours. The two she remembered most were martin cannon craig, and Alexander Morgan—for opposite reasons. Once they were all seated, they were introduced to the authors of the avatar project. They were told that they had been assembled to form the entourage for a diplomatic mission to the ao system. Events related to the destruction of the heavy cruiser adventure had compelled the imperial court on aeo’anth to initiate the first formal dialogue since the signing of the treaty of ao (see details of the first and second wars of contact). The destructive entity that killed her mother had made a second appearance, forcing the Avon empire to make inquiries of its human allies. Phoenix understood the significance of that announcement. The thought alone was deeply disturbing. There was only one witness in the imperial Aegis who could testify as to the exact nature of the threat. She was hardly up to it. but she was delighted to put that off when she considered what her “graduation present” was. An all expenses paid vacation to ao’ajeo—an exotic world, where she once had lived with her mother—and the only world in the Aegis with immunity from the control acts.

Alexander Morgan invited her to dinner—to celebrate their reunion, and to address a concern she had regarding her ‘aberrant behavior’. She arrived at his office, and when he met her, he escorted her to a fine restaurant. In a way, it was reassuring to find herself back under the wing of her childhood mentor. She waited until they had a moment of privacy to talk to him about her strange manifestation. She described the confrontation, and the state she had been in, and then confessed to having had these dreams several times before. By the time they finished eating, their ‘evening out’ had turned into a full departure. They proceeded to the starport and caught a shuttle to the l5 station. No time was wasted. By that evening they were on a ship bound for ao.

During the interplanetary hop, her father explained the politics of the situation. (He tells her about the wars of contact, and the terms of the treaty, including citizenship for Avon who wished to apply. ).

Certain members of the establishment opposed the idea of welcoming a race of psionics into the Aegis. These were the same factions that had forced the control acts through the senate, and which constantly complained about the military training and government licensing of psionics. The government had long defended its actions, quietly assuring the opposition that there had been compelling reasons for the present psionic agenda.

A few weeks later, as she gazed down at the world from orbit, she dwelt on the conversation she had with her father back on Earth. Her preoccupation with the haunting memories of her mother and thoughts of her bizarre state of arousal had distracted her from the fact that her father’s comment had been inconsistent with her conditioned memories of a trip to ao’ajeo. In spite of her conditioning, she had not objected to, nor felt compelled to correct his—and now her—use of the wrong name. It had taken her a while to figure out what he was talking about—he never gave her the answer to his own questions, leaving it up to her to puzzle it out. Phoenix had lived on ao’ajeo once before. It surprised her that she could have forgotten the little boy who had been her friend. She had been too young to really understand the reality of interstellar travel, but she had not been too young to form a strong attachment. It had torn her up to leave without him. As the memories blossomed, she was ashamed to admit to herself how quickly, and completely she had indeed forgotten him—and then she remembered her dream lover. The phantom whose touch she had worked so hard to banish during past two fearful years. It seemed she had not forgotten, after all. She wondered, embarrassed amusement, what he would think if he knew what kind of fantasies her memories of him had inspired. It took almost no time for the thought to become an obsession. She paid no attention to the fever she woke up with the next morning. She noticed it rising as she got ready for the day. She tried to fight it, and when that did not seem to work, she tried to hide it. In fact, she hid it rather well. No one made any comment as they gathered in the station to await their shuttle, nor on the flight down.

Encounters and confrontations—joint assembly—Aegis senate, Avon imperial court.

Ao’ajeo existed as a place where human and Avon culture could mix—an open forum, a free market, and a social and political arena. It had been conceded to the Aegis after the second war of contact largely so that there would be no cause for any human to set foot on ajea itself. Ao’ajeo was the only world where the two empires overlapped. Her presentation was to be given before the first joint assembly of human and Avon authorities in two hundred years. A car was waiting at the terminal. Arriving in haste, the two of them were put up and required to wait until the senate could assemble. It was a once in a lifetime vacation for her, but her father secretly applied himself to renewing and reinforcing his connections to the elite circles in the alien establishment. For a week, she was his date to evening functions with the heads of the interstellar government. In front of an audience of select members of the Aegis senate and the Avon imperial court, she was forced to project her memories of her mother’s death. The moment of truth caught up to her all too soon. It was disturbing, coming forth to reveal what only she and a handful of Aegis authorities knew about her mother’s death. Her mother had been an avatar, and she, her ship, and all hands had been lost to a single hostile contact that had intercepted them in deep space. In light of this threat, the government had broadened the scope of the avatar project in the hopes of developing the capacity to respond to a direct assault against a member world of the Aegis. It was a shock to learn that after six years the same entity had reappeared, leading an assault on a non-aligned world that had been negotiating with the Aegis for membership.

The strain of reliving that nightmare only compounded her silent suffering. What only Phoenix knew—and had kept secret for reasons she could not explain—was that her mother had recognized the entity that had murdered her. It had, in fact, been looking for her. She was forced to excuse herself when she could no longer contain her symptoms. Her father’s message caught up to her as she got into the car. As she settled into her seat, she read the letter from her father informing her that there was a slight change in their plans. From angel’s gate on ao’ajeo she had to get passage to dragon’s gate, ao’ajea. The car dropped her off at the outskirts of a dahn. From there she was escorted through the Avon city to the gate at its heart. One step across its threshold was all it took. Phoenix was stunned by her admission. It was their privilege to extend an invitation to outsiders—and usually for some imperative reason—but all who ‘accepted’ that invitation were bound to the codes and traditions of Avon culture which they had ‘chosen’ to adopt. Phoenix managed to conduct herself properly through the introductions. By the time those formalities were over she was dizzy with fever. On the short walk to her suite, she collapsed more than once under the strain of resisting the onset of heat. She wondered if she would even make it to the rooms that had been prepared for them. In fact, she did not, but she managed to make it into the middle of the dahn before she blacked out from the first full bloom of heat. The natives who came to attend her knew exactly what the problem was, however. Her symptoms were instantly recognizable. Mistaken for Ember, the people who found her delivered her to her mother’s apartments in Dream Gate at the heart of the imperial province. Desperate action was taken by the aeomni master, Dancer, to save her life. Passion, Dancer’s protégé, came down out of her sanctum to find Ember. Unlike Dancer, she saw no more than anyone else, and yet she did sense something odd about Phoenix as she and Dancer drew close, a small commotion ensued as the maestro took charge and left the foyer with Phoenix in her arms.

Encounters and confrontations—Dancer.

As hard as it was to return to a world where her childhood had been shattered, as hard as it was to relive that devastating event, her coming to the ao system saved her life. Because of her assumption that she was merely human, Phoenix had resisted the onset of heat until it had threatened to kill her. By the time she recovered her senses, she discovered that she had somehow stumbled across to ao’ajea. Phoenix awakened in the court residence of Phoenix Ember Nin I in Dream Gate. In the twilight of fever dreams, Phoenix had been preoccupied with thoughts of mortality. After a bit she realized that she was not suffering from a normal fever. Then she remembered the last words she heard. Someone had said she was in heat. That was absurd. Humans did not go into heat. It was hard, however, to argue with her symptoms. The raging arousal, the listlessness, the fever—she honestly felt that she would die if she did not get laid. That need had broken a discipline that had kept her alive for the past two years. When she began to come to her senses, she could not say if it had been a dream, an intimate vision conjured within her mind, or if it had been rape. Whatever had happened, the fever had broken. The carefully constructed lies that had defined her life up to that point shattered in her face. Worse, what Phoenix had perceived as a rape was revealed to be a life-saving act which enabled her to be taken safely home—or rather to the home of her alter ego, Ember—where her condition could be treated. It was a shocking way to learn that she was not human, and that she had come home. Confronted with the facts of biology, she had little choice but to accept that she was Avon—not human as she had always assumed. She found herself way out of her depth among her own people and learning who and what she was would become her only hope for survival.

Ember returned from seeing Coal. Ember was home late and caught up with the news. Passion’s siblings, Pain and Pleasure, had arrived in Dream Gate. Dancer was busy arranging for the youths to stay in residence there. Presumably while they attended to the needs of their sire’s house during her advancing illness. Passion was lingering about the suite concerned about “Ember” who had been brought to their home with serious heat sickness.

Encounters and confrontations—Phoenix Ember Nin ii.

Ember and Passion encountered each other on their way in. Ember was not pleased to return home to find Phoenix installed in her room. Phoenix turned and found herself confronting her own image, a shock of recognition passed through her—different from the shockwave that passed through her reflection. Without a word to anyone, Ember stormed out in a rage. Phoenix was left alone to sort her thoughts. She had grown up in two worlds. Growing up in the interstellar human civilization but growing up Avon nonetheless. Most of her life had been spent among humans, who regarded her, and her kind, as an exotic branch of humanity. Her mother raised Phoenix to appreciate and understand the values of both her native culture as well as the human civilization to which she had been citizen since before she had even been born. Her human and Avon education had each been demanding and not perfectly integrated, though she strove fiercely to excel to please both her peers and her mother. Phoenix was an extremely intelligent and adventurous child, with independent citizenship which gave her access to the nets, and her native psionic ability (telepathy, telekinesis and partial dominion) granted her access to the path. She was happy with her world the way it was. She had taken her ‘humanity’ for granted. It had never occurred to her to give her family origins any thought. Then she came of age, fell prey to heat, and found herself back on the world where her mind and soul had been deeply scarred by a childhood tragedy.

Thrust on each other as roommates, Ember and Phoenix both had to be talked into accepting the arrangements their parents had made. Dealing with heat was difficult enough. Dealing with Ember was earth-shattering. Ember was more than merely identical. A twin so perfect that she was not a twin at all, but a second self. Ember tried to explain her existence at that point. Her memories of early childhood were identical to Phoenix’s, but something had happened at some point and the two had diverged. Ember had awakened one night in the vast athenaeum of Dream Gate, as if from a nightmare. She had hung around until she was noticed and taken in by the muses. She had manifested her psi and was raised there in fosterage with Pain and Pleasure where she was the youngest of thirteen children growing up in the household until she was found by her mother. The meeting had been accidental and there had not been time to really communicate. The few facts she had learned had misled her. She had learned from her mother that she was a split manifest and that her other self was being raised by her mother in the Aegis. Only, she had assumed that her other self was a boy. Confronting Phoenix had been a terrible shock. In learning about the process and function of heat, she was exposed to the concept of a split twin, a dual manifestation of being expressing the male and female aspects of a soul, but in her case, the male half of her had been lost and somehow a second female half had appeared in his place. Each confronted the prospect that they could only find relief from heat in each other’s embrace—for the male expression of their potential had died in the massacre.

From that initial meeting, things proceed to become more complicated and intriguing by the moment.

Every day was a lesson in being Avon. Her human trained social reflexes got her into some interesting and embarrassing situations. Ember ignored Phoenix’s comments on her room, refusing to explain the masculine/feminine dichotomy Phoenix observed.

Encounters and confrontations—Passion.

Phoenix was taken in hand by Passion, instantly relating to her as an older sister. Phoenix had come into the sophisticated heart of society, where exquisite craft predominated literal technological advancement. Household life was full of subtle amenities, such as bathing. Oddly, though Phoenix had certain masculine traits, Passion discovered that Phoenix wasn't really much of a tomboy. Dressed, she could have been mistaken easily for a lyn like herself. The newfound daughter of the house was indeed a girl, though her cousin could hardly believe it 'til Phoenix bared all. Washing was simply cleaning the body, bathing was relaxing and promoting healing and humor in the body. Curious, Passion probed Phoenix's past while assisting in bathing her. There was a reason behind the girl's peculiar androgyny, but Passion found the area too sensitive to pry into. Passion's probing caused a sudden flashback for Phoenix. Warm and wet splash on her face. There was blood on the walls. (flashback to the d’Ava massacre. Passion was startled by the powerful image Phoenix projected. It forced her to remember exactly who Phoenix really was, and that brought back memories of her own. Phoenix had been found huddling in an airshaft after the massacre, and she was taken away from ao’ajea as soon as possible. Passion asked her about her life in the Aegis. Phoenix had lived on ao’ajeo with her mother, until (at 11) her mother’s assumed death, when she was taken to mediterra where her father joined her on a psionic reservation. Phoenix Ember Avon-Ember i and Alexander Morgan had both had military careers, so she was often left in the care of athena—a very unusual bioroid. Between her father and the avatar project she became quite adept at physical and mental arts for her age.

A bathed body was wrapped in house robes—never did one put on previously worn clothes after bathing.

In house robes, she seemed the most formal of daughters. In spite of a natural grace, she felt awkward as she made her appearance before the household. Her awkwardness was shared by her father, Alexander Morgan, who joined her in her mother’s house—apparently nonplused to find her an exotic. He was an exotic himself. Phoenix and her father were received into the household and honored with the traditional feast. Introductions were made in an informal reception before the meal, and the issue of what to do with each of them was raised. Dancer obviously had something in mind but said nothing on these thoughts, instead referring to the request made by Phoenix’s mother many years ago that hospitality be granted her daughter and son in exchange for their service to the athenaeum during their mnao.

Encounters and confrontations—Pleasure.

Pain and Pleasure had left earlier to visit Enigma, the Avon ‘Dai, so they could not be introduced. Phoenix and Alexander’s reception was private, among the intimates of the household only. Her hosts were family of her mother’s and their intimate friends. A new girl appeared at the end of the meal. Pleasure, the current heir and daughter-self of the Avon ‘Dai. As the adults excused the younger generation, Phoenix was handed off to Pleasure. As Enigma and her mother had been friends, Pleasure openly hoped to continue that friendship into second generations of self. Phoenix was shown around the athenaeum and Pleasure talked about the time she had spent at Phoenix’s family’s domain of teal, and learned Ember was sharing her room with her.

Encounters and confrontations—Pain.

As morning came around, Phoenix encountered Pleasure, in the person of Pain, not realizing that she was confronting the male half. They engaged in a little friendly competition to get each other’s measure. Afterwards, proceeding to the baths, Phoenix was confronted with the reality of one person embodied separately in two genders. The moment of naked confrontation was mutually embarrassing. After that scene, she was shocked to discover that Pain and Pleasure were two sides of the same person, a split manifest. Pain and Pleasure were split twins, striving to attain the union Passion had.

She came out of the baths and joined her father at breakfast. While they ate, she regarded him. Her father seemed to have a better understanding of what they were getting into, and his questions, along with the answers he received, were very instructional. He was particularly curious about Passion, Pain and Pleasure, having seen the three of them at court. The houses of d’Ava and d’asha were closely related. Passion was the sole embodiment of the d’anva line, the sister house of d’Ava. Pleasure and Pain were true to the d’asha line, they had entered Passion’s household for their fosterage. It was proper even to call them cousins, due to the manner in which a given Avon bloodline could span millennia unchanged. Dancer was believed to be from the d’ana line, so in a way he was like a father to Passion. Passion and Dancer adopted each other when he mysteriously appeared following her parents’ deaths and lived together in Dream Gate as father and daughter. Phoenix was shocked to find that Passion, in a way, was another survivor of the massacre she had tried so hard to forget but was never far from her nightmares. Passion had been nine years old when the mind of her mother—and her mother’s other-self—descended on her in the wake of their deaths, she remained sane and continued to reside in Dream Gate. Pain and Pleasure stood to inherit the mind of their archetype, the Avon ‘Dai, though they were more influenced by their new incarnation than their original one, growing up in fosterage rather than in close proximity the imperial court.

Phoenix was pronounced fit to return to ao’ajeo and report to her superiors. As she rejoined the entourage, she did not know how to respond to their questions and looks. These were her friends, her colleagues, and her superiors. They had all considered her one of them—human—but what would they think if she revealed her true heritage?.

When she arrived at the suite of apartments the entourage occupied within the embassy annex, she found herself the topic of a heated debate. Apparently, her secret had been revealed at some point during the day’s negotiations. At least one of the commissioned avatars denounced her as a spy in their midst, and even her friends seemed uncomfortable with the facts that were presented. Phoenix did not know what to say. The room fell silent as they noticed her arrival. In spite of her proclaimed solidarity with the Aegis and its representatives, she found herself politely but firmly shut out of their company. The admiral and the senior delegate took her aside, each reassuring her that their government did not harbor any doubts with regard to her integrity or patriotism but seeing that she had established several contacts and appeared to be accepted as one of them she was in a unique position to provide the mission with vital feedback and intelligence.

Encounters and confrontations—Coal.

Phoenix felt well enough to join her father at an audience before the Avon Avon ‘Dai. That evening, Phoenix appeared in court with the rest of her delegation. In the audience hall, her eyes were drawn to Coal. She did not recognize him or associate him with his name or with the person Ember had been talking about the other night. Still there was something about him, as if she already knew how his hands would feel on her. Next her eyes were drawn to the Avon ‘Dai, entering with her entourage. averting her eyes, she was shocked at the sudden sense of standing opposite herself. Ember was standing to Dancer’s right as her sword. There was a message in that. She understood by this point that under normal conditions she should have stood to Dancer’s left as her shield which made the statement twice as pointed. The absence of a shield in a formal audience indicated hostile negotiations, and her presence among the humans turned it into an accusation of theft or deceit. By implication, then, Dancer was declaring that the humans had insulted her and Avon tradition. It was also a gesture of trust. Her rightful place had been left open to her, which implied that the Dancer was willing to trust her protection to a citizen of the Aegis. When had such a bold political statement been made without the utterance of a single word or thought?.

The Avon ‘Dai was certainly not blind to the statement her muse was making. Even the Avon ‘Dai herself could not overlook it, going so far as to call her aside as the people stared. Enigma lightly questioned her alignment, and Phoenix pointed out that she stood aligned with her sworn duties and commitments and further stated that if there was any substance to the negotiations she had witnessed the day of her presentation, then she had stood precisely where the Avon ‘Dai’s negotiations were headed—an Avon existing within the Aegis, not apart from it. The Avon ‘Dai addressed the human delegation, stating lightly that it would please her for them to honor custom and allow Phoenix her rightful place. The admiral, and the senior delegate, responded to the invitation with unmistakable delight. The burden of conflicting loyalties fell heavily on her shoulders as she crossed the floor to shield the Avon ‘Dai’s muse.

As the evening wore on, she realized the importance of the negotiations—after all her government had gone through to hold on to her, it could not have been easy to give her up as a peace offering. She knew her worth as an avatar, and she feared the possibilities that her new position could invoke. She was already passably trained as an elite soldier, a military spy and assassin. What was it worth to her government to have someone like her this close to the Avon ‘Dai?.

As she stood alongside her people and tried to focus on the proceedings, she could feel members of the Avon delegation wondering what she had been doing on the human side of the room.

Later, as she waited for her father to conclude his business with the Avon ‘Dai in private chambers, she was approached by Coal, who mistook her for Ember, with whom he clearly had some intimate relationship. Shocked at her sharp rejection of his advances, he stood in silence as she departed alone.

As she arrived home, she was met by Dancer, who asked her how her visit to the court went. Phoenix described being molested by Coal, and Dancer had to tell her who Coal was, and why he acted the way he did. Another victim of the d’Ava massacre. The surviving son of a d’ara courtesan and the Avon ‘Dai—and thus a cousin—Coal had been presented to Ember as a surrogate for her brother, to help her progress through heat. Ember and Coal went through heat together, suppressing the symptoms of heat for an entire year, but without triggering the self-conception needed to come out of heat. Phoenix realized then the source of her gripping erotic fantasies. She had tuned in on them, and she did not really know how to react to that.

Ember was confused by the way Coal was acting, until she realized that he had mistaken Phoenix for her. In defense of herself, she explained that her mother’s other daughter had returned from the AEA. Coal immediately realized who the girl he had molested was. If Ember’s other half was a girl, given their current relationship, he smiled at the thought of including this new twin. Ember was a step ahead of him, though, announcing that Dancer had already asked her to see Phoenix through mnao—and now that Coal had made her jealous, she intended to honor that request.

Encounters and confrontations—Ash Ember.

Phoenix was awakened by a terrifying nightmare—and the accompanying and unnoticed fit. Prowling about, she slipped through the sleeping house out into the night. After wandering around the vacant estate for a few hours, Phoenix witnessed as Passion stole in during the night to appeal to her father for a favor. Events had unfolded, forcing the Avon ‘Dai to restore the house of d’Ava. Until her mother’s reappearance, Passion’s line had held the title in trust. However, her mother had never officially been recognized, so the burden presently rested on Passion. Passion had committed herself to the muse path, which forbade her to carry any titles, but she could not in conscience allow the title to fall to someone as dangerous as Ember either. Passion was enlisting Dancer’s assistance in quitting her claim to d’Ava and transferring it to Phoenix. In spite of having forsaken her duty to her house, in the hope that Phoenix would fulfill the requirements of an heir, Passion would continue her training to represent Avon in interests in the Aegis. Phoenix was about to retreat, to leave Passion and her father in privacy, when she realized that they had been discussing matters about her, she could not pry herself away as the conversation shifted to a discussion of the requirements of mnao and their assessment of Phoenix’s ability to deal with them.

What she heard disturbed her and cast a shadow on her homecoming. A discussion on the expected evolution of her sexuality. Aeo. There were things she had to learn about her body, or rather the whole concept of “body”. Phoenix had spent her childhood largely among humans and had developed a firm female identity. She had always been something of a tomboy, by human standards, while she was growing up. She missed the implication that being female was optional. However, the more she overheard about herself, and the time of choosing, the more apprehensive she became about her sexual identity. She was startled when Ember came upon her, hiding under the eaves of Dancer’s study. Ember and Phoenix retreated to their room, where Ember attempted to answer Phoenix’s questions. Now that she had actually seen it, the thought of being sex split like Pain and Passion was intriguing. Disconcerting. Hard to imagine, let alone believe. Phoenix was somewhat ill at the news that it would take the intimate embrace of sex, and in her case her twin and other self, or some unknown relative, to break the crushing grip of heat. Apparently, she had guessed how her human shaped mind would react to the nature of this purely Avon relationship. Ember explained the purpose of mnao and the reason why it existed. If Phoenix did not pursue mnao, her body would consume itself with heat. On the other hand, if she engaged Coal for mnao, she would inevitably become dependant on him, for heat would never end. As Ember expected, Phoenix was not excited by either option, so she revealed her secret, and explained that she could get her through mnao, and without any risk of “addiction” to a man. Phoenix was so stunned to see the reflection of herself become the reflection of Ash—an image of herself she knew but had never confronted before—she was not able to respond to the offer.

Encounters and confrontations—Ash.

Among the entourage that accompanied the Avon ‘Dai to the threat conference was the male version of the split-twinned girl, Ash. Ash quickened to Phoenix’s presence and quickly tracked her down. Asking for the girl who spoke at the conference, he was able to find Phoenix without confusion. Phoenix, however, took him to be Ember and rejected his amorous advances. As the two of them squared off Ember appeared. For the first time in their lives the three confronted each other at once. The three aspects of young Phoenix had remained isolated from each other, on worlds vast distances apart, until Phoenix’s terrible summons to the ao system. The embodiment of her destructive side, Ember, confronted her even as she confronted the reality of her Avon heritage as manifested by her male aspect, Ash. He was everything she had dreamed he would be. Ash was totally unprepared for the twins. Ember insisted he explain a few more things before introducing the two of them. Phoenix Ash Morgan and Phoenix Ember Morgan had been born on ao’ajea to Phoenix Ember Nin of house Avon, wife of Alexander Drake Phoenix. Both embers had believed that Phoenix Ash Nin and Phoenix Ash Morgan both died in a terrorist massacre targeting the powerful house Avon on ao’ajea. Phoenix Ember Nin I had left ao’ajea with her traumatized daughter, joining her husband in the Aegis. The male incarnation, which all concerned believed dead, was just as worthy of the name of Phoenix. Ash rose from his own ashes, and confronted with a still open world gate, he stepped through to aeo’anth, the heart of the Avon empire. Arriving in the imperial seat of house Avon, he found himself inducted into the Avon ‘Dai’s immediate household.

Phoenix avoided Ember and Coal, trying to come to terms with the questions before her. However, neither of them wanted to be avoided. From the moment she had seen Ash, Phoenix had started thinking about her situation. Ember had Coal, and according to everyone around her, Phoenix was expected to “dance” with Ash. Once she said it out loud, however, Ember had nearly exploded. It had been inevitable from the first that the two of them would get into a fight. They were too much alike to be so different, equal and opposite. Fast friends, the twins were also natural rivals over identity—over Ash and Coal as well. Ember still felt she had tried to steal Coal. With friction over sharing the same face and the same name, compounded by the differences in their social status and reputations, each was feeling defensive of her own territory. It had not been possible for them to really share anything, and neither wanted to share lovers!.

Besides, Ember was still sore that she had turned down her strange offer. Phoenix still had trouble accepting the idea that the two of them were in fact the same person in two bodies. An unquestionable attraction existed between them, as powerful as yin and yang, dragon and phoenix, aelyn and aeslyn. A strange repulsion, the closer they would get the more extreme the emotions between them would become. Love and hate. It was too much for her to deal with. Rather than fight, she grabbed her few things and left Dancer’s residence.

Phoenix wandered the darkened streets, her mind preoccupied with thoughts of sex and death. When she left Dancer, she had left her safety net behind. If she had another attack before finding a suitable partner, she could end up quite dead. She was having a hard time coming to terms with the forces that had reared up as the defining aspects of her life. It was hard to accept that everything she had thought she was had been a lie erected on threats against her life. Confronting that—even more than losing her virginity the way she had or being expected to make love to a male version of herself—signaled the end of her innocence. Should it surprise her that her peers questioned her loyalty to a government that had threatened and lied to her?.

Was it strange that they excluded her from their company, charging her to spy on those she had just learned were her true people?.

She arrested her thoughts as she felt the approach of her mate and compliment. When he asked what she was doing, she confessed that she was looking for a place to stay during the negotiations.

Encounters and confrontations—Dream.

Ash took Phoenix to see his mentor, Dancer’s female half, Dream, who listened to, and responded to Phoenix’s apprehensions of heat and choosing. She talked to both of them about the natural order of events in an Avon life, explaining how their nature required them to turn to each other to make it through each mating season. For a lyn Avon, mating season was a time for choosing mates, a time for tasting compliments. Split-manifests, chiyn Avon, could also choose and taste, but by their nature, they were already mated compliments. As Dancer put it, there were sometimes bizarre consequences to tampering with a soul’s physical and spiritual make up. That admission forced her to explain a few things about the mysterious origin of the Avon race and the phenomenon of split-manifestation. Dream laughed as she described the paradox—their ancestors had been given the task of creating a race of whole individuals. In one sense they succeeded, save for the fact that the conception of a whole person resulted in the birth of a diune. In time, with perfect devotion, the two of them might one day be united in one mind and one body—but in practice very few were able to attain that ideal.

Phoenix Ash followed the forms for bringing his mate into his house, guiding her through the exchange. Phoenix was surprised as she was introduced into the personal residence of the Avon ‘Dai. House Avon was the mother house of the Avon race. House mating was a ritual that evolved over time. The first step was simply approval of the head of the house, which in this case meant the approval of the Avon ‘Dai. Enigma kept the matter informal—given the circumstances—allowing them a grace period to reacquaint themselves before subjecting them to the formalities of a full house reception. The two of them expressed their thanks and then retired to Ash’s suite of apartments, where Ash did not spare her the formalities of room mating. She was surprised to realize that his insistence on the forms had been to ensure that she had the chance to impose limits on their intimacy.

Together Phoenix and Ash confronted the mystery of each other. Phoenix had already decided that she was going to confront their nature head on. There was nothing in her experience against which to judge the situation on a moral or ethical level. In spite of her human values, she had already satisfied her concerns about the real dangers of incest, and she was not sure that having sex with a copy of oneself qualified as incest. It seemed more like masturbation to her, and she had never had a problem with that. The other concern was narcissism. They were fascinated by the strangeness in their reflection of each other. What had passed between them before had been pure passion and sensation, and neither really remembered the particulars. This time they progressed slowly, exploring the mystery in depth, allowing the realization to take firm root and grow. It was a strange and wonderful experiment, discovering the paradox of having one identity, two bodies and strangest of all one soul.

She had never felt so happy, nor so frightened, and never had she felt such conflicting emotions about the same thing. She was in love and could not deny that she was in love with herself—and vice versa. If they had not had such unique minds and lives, she knew they could never have untangled themselves. Ash pointed out that, for an Avon, that was the way it was supposed to have been. It was abnormal for a split-manifest to exhibit such distinct identities. Ash talked her into going with him to consult some people about it, to ease both their concerns.

Encounters and confrontations—Blade et al.

To her surprise, they did not go to see Ash’s mentor. Ash took them to see his classmates—members of the house guard. When she saw them, she understood why. The group of young men and women—hardly more than boys and girls—were all split-manifests. That brief encounter convinced Phoenix that Ash was telling the truth when he said that they were abnormal for a split-manifest. That hardly mattered beside what their behavior and comments had revealed about their relationship. Few comments were directed at her, but she picked up enough to know that Ash owed his comrades for past sexual favors, and it was obvious that the young men expected payment in kind. Their reaction to her, and her modesty, alarmed her. Her judgement lapsed as the teasing and taunting struck a nerve. In an effort to preserve her other’s reputation, Phoenix challenged their assumptions about her incompetence. By default, she had challenged the school. A time was named for her to meet the vai kume champion, and captain of the house guard in the circle. Ash dragged her away before she could get herself into any more trouble. Not having found an answer to their problem, they went looking for Dream.

Ash did not understand Phoenix’s anger at the discovery of his previous means of controlling the symptoms of heat. When she refused to talk about it, he took her back to their apartment. In the absence of someone they felt comfortable confiding in, they confronted the issue on their own. They had not meant to get into an argument, but once they had, it outlined the problem for them. Each of them had developed around a different set of beliefs and values. How could they be the same person if they each had a unique way of thinking?.

Neither was willing to give up what they held sacred, but that did not preclude either of them from accepting the other’s perspective. If this situation had truly never happened before, it could only be due to the fact no split-manifest had ever been shaped by languages and cultures that were alien to each other. Phoenix made the first gesture, asking Ash to help her understand what it meant to be Avon. He started with the aspect of his culture that she seemed the most unsure of, Avon sexuality. As native Avon, Phoenix’s other selves had not resisted the onset of heat. Since they had been isolated from each other, they had been forced to turn to others to alleviate their symptoms—but as a consequence, prolonging heat indefinitely. Even by themselves, submerging heat in each other’s embrace, they could not rid themselves of heat. Heat was just a mechanism of their racial imperative, a means for achieving unity. Unification was an art in itself, and not everyone could attain it.

Encounters and confrontations—Enigma, the Avon ‘Dai.

That evening, Phoenix appeared in court with Ash, who was standing to the Avon ‘Dai’s right as her sword. She stood to Enigma’s left as her shield which made Dancer’s original statement twice as pointed. By implication, then, the Avon ‘Dai was willing to trust her protection to a citizen of the Aegis. Phoenix accompanied her brother and the lord of the court to her residence when the evening had come to a close. The private interview that followed was nerve shattering. The Avon ‘Dai opened the conversation by asking Phoenix what she would do if her government ordered her to assassinate her. Things got more interesting from there. She even received instructions on how to carry out such an assassination in such a way as to absolve herself of any blame. When it became more than she could take, she begged for a sane explanation. Enigma replied that if one was to be targeted for assassination, then the best chance for one’s survival is to thoroughly and completely convince one’s enemy that one has been assassinated. As for why she would arrange for Phoenix to commit such an act and get away with it, she simply said “i would not want to see my daughter-in-law be executed for doing her duty”. They were confronted by their mother’s legacy. Phoenix Ash and Phoenix had been promised, on their naming day, to the Avon ‘Dai’s split-manifest child and heir. Before they were excused, they were formally reintroduced to Pain and Pleasure, their fiancées. They talked a bit about Ash and Phoenix’s inheritance, lands and titles and such, but Phoenix was too upset to take it all in.

As soon as they were alone, she turned on him and demanded to know what other surprises were waiting for her. Ash shrugged and told her sternly to go to bed and sleep. She had to fight in the morning, and sitting up all night arguing would not help her in the circle. If he had told her, there was no doubt she would have been up all night agonizing over it. She could not get him to budge, so eventually she did fall asleep. Her uneasy mind woke her up early and drove her out of bed. She wandered alone, lost in thought, not even aware that her feet had brought her into the circle. She was gazing at the sunrise when the attack came. Her confidence was proven justified, when she practically executed the champion in their duel. From there, events were taken out of her hands. She was bathed, anointed and led to the alter for her initiation—a public ritual of opening. Before the eyes of the entire community—and the delegation as well—Ash and Phoenix lost their ‘virginity’ to the expert ministrations of Dream, whereby they became adults and were granted sexual freedom.

The reaction set in when the two of them were alone again. It was difficult for her to accept what had happened as a normal and natural occurrence. Intellectually, she understood that for an Avon, it was. That did not change the fact that such a display went against her character and left her feeling lewd and shameless. Ash, for his part, still found her ‘humanity’ incomprehensible. Whenever the two of them stood sword and shield, he spent all of his time studying the humans, seeking insight into the culture that had so warped his mate and compliment. He understood that part of her problem was her concern for her human friendships. He even offered to accompany her the next day for her regular briefing. Phoenix was prompt and precise in her reports to her superiors. Her insight was proving invaluable to the delegation. She was required to describe and explain her actions in detail, which made it more difficult than simply spying on the Avon ‘Dai and his household. It was like she was spying on herself. Based on what they had seen, or heard for themselves, they had to know how embracing her native culture was impacting her. Unable to even guess how they would react to that evening’s display, she imagined that his presence would only inspire the kind of suspicions and prejudices she feared. What bothered her most was that it had not bothered her to perform the acts in the circumstances she had, she just did not know how to face herself after the fact. Her agitation deeply alarmed Ash, who could think of nothing to do but hold on to her and whisper reassurances. Ironically, her reaction only made her more committed to learning and perfecting her sexual techniques and the protocols of tasting, choosing and bed mating. Ash had not needed to tell her that the initiation had made them subject to open courting.

In the morning, she faced her fears, as she went in to make her report to her human superiors. It was a relief to find out she had not lost or alienated her friends among the avatars. The others had known her history at the academy, so they had considered her a pervert long before she had been nailed in public. They were at least grateful that her intelligence was ensuring that they would all be able to leave when the negotiations ended. The time she spent becoming Avon, they spent pretending to become Avon. None were pleased to learn that they had to complete the same rites of adulthood and qualify for a rank of nai or better to be able to leave their adopted home and travel into wild or hostile territory—as human space and the Aegis were considered to be by ajeans.

The direction things were headed prompted Phoenix to seek out her twin. As she feared, Ember was angry with her for “stealing” Ash and actually cried as she related how painful it had been to watch them commence together. As she hoped, Ember was equally alarmed at the arranged marriage to Pain and Pleasure. Not that she objected to either fiancée, but she was concerned about how she fit into these plans. When they met with Ash, they shared their concerns. If one of them were cut out of their union, it would harm them all. In a private audience with the Avon ‘Dai, when Ash took Phoenix and Ember to meet with the head of his household, they were all tested and confirmed to be a triune soul, and the legitimate heirs of Avon d’Ava and the province of Phoenix gate. Faced with their obvious unity, the Avon ‘Dai questioned their assumed identities. Phoenix had taken her identity for granted, but Ash and Ember had not been blessed with such an opportunity. They had both resorted to genetic identification—but since they each went to different authorities, the answers they got were significantly different. Ember had been identified as the genetic twin of Phoenix Ember Nin; hence she took that name. Phoenix Ember Nin II had assumed she was the only survivor of the massacre—and the one and only daughter of Phoenix. Unknown to anyone at the time, young Phoenix owed her survival to a desperate manifestation of her power, an embodiment of her destructive potential. This other young Phoenix slaughtered the terrorist hunt party that started the massacre, and then stumbled through the open Phoenix gate, arriving in Dream Gate stunned by her own actions. Due to this unusual manifestation, the girl grew up on two worlds unaware of her own duality. Ash had been identified as the male aspect of the long-lost heir of the Ava branch of the imperial house of Avon—a genetic duplicate of a person who had lived at least ten thousand years ago, and quite possibly of the first generation of the Avon race. The same tests were certain to confirm the same for them all.

The nightmares, the prowling, her disturbed and agitated thoughts and emotions had driven her out of the warmth of her bed often in the past. Never more so than what she was experiencing of late. Questioning the wisdom of making a habit of night stalking, even as her roaming brought her under the eaves of another private conversation. This time the people meeting had almost walked in on her. Slipping out the only exit, Phoenix Morgan was trapped in an airshaft during Enigma’s meeting with ara and a man named talon, who had come in the cover of darkness. This time she could not flee without giving herself away. The purpose of ara’s visit was to ask her to provide a place for her household—her husband, her heir and her younger children—so that Raven could be presented to Phoenix for her mnao. A few months had passed since ara dispatched a letter to her, pleading the urgency of house business. Ara had been given notice to retire as head of ara, and her heir was still shattered. His female counterpart and her own male compliment had died in a tragic accident. Mother and son balanced each other, but due to the difference in generations, they could not achieve unity. That cost them both important status. She feared a move to dissolve her house and was getting desperate for a way to protect ara from a preemptive strike. A solution had presented itself. Unfortunately, she was unaware of Phoenix and Ash’s reunion. Remembering only that Ava’s heir had lost her male counterpart in the Ava massacre, when word of Phoenix’s arrival reached her, ara immediately saw Phoenix as a perfect mate for her son. Her claim to the lost Ava mantle presented an opportunity to restore the ancient avara heritage in a union with Raven. She had missed the opportunity with Passion and planned to correct that this time. Enigma agreed to make a place in her home for the lord of ara, her children by storm, and her other children fostered by contract to the d’Avon, in the hope that she would regain a place in her sister’s heart. Ara’s interest in Phoenix was obvious. Passion’s rejection of her own claim to the d’Ava title significantly changed ara’s plans for answering talon’s challenge. She had a notion of orchestrating an alliance and future reunion of Ava and ara through Phoenix and Raven. Her desire to unite the two houses had only been strengthened by Passion’s refusal. Her intention was to sue for betrothal. Enigma made no comment to that, save to assure ara that preparations necessary for Phoenix to bear the mantle of her house were already being undertaken.

As before, what she heard gave her things to think about in the days following. Phoenix was largely confused by what little of the conversation she overheard. She reflected on part of the lie she had lived. Thinking provoked questions about what she had been willing to take for granted but could not bear to hear spoken.

She had almost adjusted to the news that Enigma planned for her to assert a claim to d’Ava and be married off. If Enigma was serious about marrying Phoenix and Ash to her own heirs, how could she negotiate a second engagement between Phoenix and this other woman’s son?.

She had checked on the legalities and based on what she had learned Phoenix would not have thought she would be introduced into her claim. Among the things she had discovered was her mother’s official station when she died. Her mother’s claim, though never asserted, was valid. Phoenix was not as sure about her own. As a courtesan, her mother had no legal rights to her children, so Phoenix would have assumed she had no claim on her mother’s house. No one else seemed to have such doubts, though. Things seemed to be moving awfully fast. When she pressed Ash for a reason, she learned that Enigma was dying. No one said anything, but everyone knew it. With the health of the Avon ‘Dai failing rapidly, several important people had dissolved their schools and dismissed their students—even their own children—to go to their Avon ‘Dai’s side. Dancer was one of them. They would not have done that if they had not suspected or else were summoned to attend her. Even the negotiations with the human empire stemmed from Enigma’s desire to sort everything out before she died.

Phoenix and Ash were called in to see the Avon ‘Dai. The question of what to do with Phoenix was quietly appraised while the Avon ‘Dai also gave some serious consideration to Pleasure, given her place as heir. These considerations molded the direction the Avon ‘Dai took with the conversation. In a more formal interview with the Avon ‘Dai, Phoenix was counseled by Enigma on the requirements she would have to meet in her education. Phoenix was required to take up duties in the house and, along with Ash, enroll in school. Phoenix was easily skilled enough to be vai, so she would be expected to serve the Avon ‘Dai in the lists. Phoenix was surprised to be asked to join her brother in devotion to dao. If certain mixed messages were to be believed, the Avon ‘Dai would have special requests to make of Ember as well. She evaded both of them, simply hinting that the uncommon twinning of Phoenix and Ember presented a possible answer to one of many new problems. She assured them it was nothing they need be worried about. It would take some work on the part of each of them to test that possibility.

As she had warned, Enigma went ahead with the proposed testing. Phoenix, Ash and Ember were summoned to the athenaeum genealogy labs. They were subjected to a wide battery of tests, physical and mental. The final conclusion was that the three were a genuine triune, perfectly balanced and interdependent parts of one soul.

From that revelation came a general announcement, and formal recognition, followed by a number of suits against their estate. As a daughter, Phoenix’s right to title was widely questioned even though she was still only the heir. Though it was unusual for one with heir status to be challenged, it was permitted on the same grounds as right to title. Lack of confidence in the daughter’s ability to bear the name and mantle of a house was the official basis for issuing a challenge. The other, unofficial reason was an issue of suit. A suit made against a daughter was a bid for the takeover of a house and its lineage. Of course, this was not the only pursuit of Phoenix going on either.

Phoenix’s promotion in court as the heir to d’Ava was what really drew the attention of the o’jin to her. They had a private claim to d’Ava which they were desperate to protect, and which they dared not allow come to anyone’s attention. They had not known that she had survived the last action they had taken to protect their interests.

Apparently, their mother had known of her rights and obligations and had been quietly administering to them since her appearance twenty years ago. She had resided at Dream Gate for some time and was recognized as a prominent member of house Avon. The arena.

Putting it to the challenge.

Because she was standing shield, Phoenix was required to spend as much time practicing with the house guard as Ash. Phoenix was in for a rude awakening. With no hesitation, Phoenix was thrust into the company of her peers. Almost out of habit, she was determined to enter as an enigma. Passion had told her how her androgynous manners led people astray. When they saw her going out the door, Passion and Ember stopped her to re-emphasize the warning. In spite of Passion’s and Ember’s protests, she defended her right to innocent misdirection; maintaining that it was not misdirection but part of her character—and what others interpreted was their business, not hers. But what she hinted disturbed Passion even more. Phoenix Morgan all but immediately sorted herself out in the local school community. Enigma had outlined to her the priorities for her dao paths. Most particularly, she attached her to a mentor to save her from the disgrace of her illiteracy. By her third day in attendance, she had some idea of how things would proceed for a pace. Her new mentor took her measure and decided that Phoenix had all the qualifications necessary for a first sword, but as an heir she lacked the preparation for authority and leadership. Among her new peers a growing crowd of friends, allies, competitors and such had begun to gather. Attention gradually but steadily focused around Phoenix—from muses and mentors, other heirs and nobles, suitors and seducers, artists of name, and even her own siblings as they catch up to her and events move on. Some of the boys—her new “classmates”—took exception to her enigmatic character and background began to push and test her. Phoenix was initially the object of o’jin investigation. The loss on their side had been very high, almost as high as the death toll of house Ava. Thus, while they had an idea of what had been intended in that long ago raid, they had to investigate the possibility that Phoenix had been converted. If she too was o’jin, then their highest objective had been unwittingly attained. Unfortunately, when they confronted her, their analysis was enigmatic. They could sense something of themselves about her, but she seemed not to consciously recognize any of them. She was going to have to take her shirt off and trade licks with several of them to earn their respect. Given this cause, she reveals her hidden talent to more than a few witnesses. In her mind this was not pushing it too far. Like many people she had the aptitude to learn some of the more exotic disciplines of the body, but in this instance, she allowed peer pressure and her own unresolved feelings about her near rape to gravely compromise her judgment. Phoenix wondered if Ash had slept with them all, or at least the female of each set. Part of her accepted his debt as hers, but it was too difficult to bring herself to assume that debt. Especially with the pressure that she felt under the surface whenever she was around them. Ash tried to sooth her anxiety, saying that it was both normal and essential that she take advantage of this time to practice at sex—while she was in heat it was harmless. Each time she agreed and resolved to do it, but as before, when she started to approach it, her nerve would break, and she would be extricating herself from increasingly embarrassing situations. A hidden adversary and secret admirer—a man of power, status and rank—became entranced by her. Phoenix was not what anyone would call normal. In fact, so many people found her mysterious, enigmatic, or just plain odd, that few people actually knew what to call her. To understand her, one really had to get to know her. Unfortunately, she was not very easy to get to know. She seemed to take special pains to reveal as little as possible about herself to anyone. He found her strength and her divinity attractive and became obsessed with penetrating the mystery surrounding her. Why?.

That was part of the mystery. She was a very enticing and alluring creature, yes, but more importantly she had secrets. He was not exactly what he seemed, either.

As heir to d’Ava, Phoenix had really stirred things up. Thoughts of her mnao still made her uneasy, and she resorted to the challenge to deal with the attentions her popularity engendered. She had no reason to think that this decision would damn her in months to come. Many of the suits were marriage proposals, and almost as many were challenges to simply duel. Phoenix was growing close to the girls in class, but the young men obviously still expected payment in kind for past sexual favors. As she had suspected, she really was obligated to pay his debt, but it remained too difficult to bring herself to do it. Especially as the pressure that she felt around them continued to grow. Ember also tried to sooth her, assuring her that it was normal and while she was in heat it was harmless. Ember even offered herself in her twin’s place. Phoenix was grateful and guilty at the same time. She had no right to place the burden on Ember. Once again, she resolved to do it, but as before, when she started to approach it, her nerve would break, and she would have to be rescued by Ember.

When Phoenix Morgan’s girlfriends encouraged her to turn out in style, many of Ash and Coal’s male friends twisted their necks out of whack. A couple of such nights out cast an allure over Phoenix that prompted a number of new challenges to her right to title—with their eyes on the prize, the way the contract was traditionally written. The three struggled to keep abreast of these suits, as they prepared to delve into the estate itself. The celebration of arla lyimb—what humans called mating season—was going to be held in Phoenix gate.

A time of choosing.

Phoenix Morgan and the others soon found themselves in the midst of arla liymb. Like ot or not, it was the time of choosing for her mnao.

On the islands of the Phoenix coast, Phoenix faced the mystery of heat and the first part of the legacy left by her enigmatic mother. There was a marked difference in the way different groups went about the affairs of arla liymb. The issue among the teen peer group was: who would Phoenix love?.

Who’s love would win her?.

Compared to seasonal flood of raging hormones, what else could possibly be important?.

The adolescent insanity of Phoenix and her friends was ridiculous on examination, but the fact was that these powerful drives could profoundly shape the course of even the most sober and serious events. Confronting the site of the massacre was sobering for all the survivors. For all the ghosts, they all got lost in the celebration of life. Phoenix had to physically withdraw and confront her ghosts—or ghost. Her personal suite was a conundrum in itself, but it was only the beginning of a trail of intrigues and paradoxes—like her personal journals in which she described the lives of her children up to the end of that very year, and her own death several years before. A precognitive gift like that was rare, as the talent had a tendency to drive those who possessed it either mad or autistic. The death of her mother continued to haunt her in nightmares and waking hallucinations as she dealt with her inheritance. Even though she had been hiding it, her mother lived on in her mind and her thoughts and memories seemed riddled with paradoxes. Phoenix was asked to share her memory of it with her siblings. Ember, along with the ship she served on and its crew, had been devoured by a deadly and destructive alien power in the depths of space. Like Phoenix, Ash had absorbed the mind of his predecessor, Phoenix Ash Nin, at his death. His own death immediately after caused the two identities to merge in ways almost impossible to sort out. His power had revealed itself immediately after his resurrection. His confession compelled Phoenix to confide her darkest secret. Phoenix had salvaged her mother’s mind from the abyss of death. Phoenix’s power fully manifested itself after this second tragedy and forced the girl and her father to relocate to a psionic reservation.

Of them all, Phoenix had the hardest time dealing with the legacy, especially the predictions of that journal. Her training in psionics was largely grounded in the scientific revelations of human scientists. While Phoenix had studied psionics, with equal devotion to physical training at her father’s urging, her twin had been learning the arts and mysteries that lay behind the use of that very power, mastering a deadly and efficient martial art well suited to her nature as an angel of destruction. The spiritual and magical qualities that Avon sciences had for humans troubled her, especially with the ghost of her mother living in her mind. In a way she could remember writing all of those entries, and her instincts told her to avoid those memories and the terrible darkness they brought to her dreams.

Her nightmares and disturbing memories were of a future that was neigh upon her, and she stubbornly refused to face either.

The living embodiments of those terrors were hardly swayed. As she fought against the paradox of her own understanding, dangerous beings were targeting her for a demonic plot. Efforts at investigation by the o’jin was inconclusive. Phoenix Morgan was, and was not, o’jin. They could sense an overshadowing mind, but not the darkness they themselves had. They attached someone to her, a suitor in pursuit of her hand. While in the presence of Phoenix, he found little encouragement, he was startled to find Ember as natural a companion as other o’jin. It would take little effort to nudge Ember into betraying Phoenix as a whole to them. Somewhat confident that Ember was a child of possession, they only needed to penetrate Phoenix to test her. Once they understood the resistance of that aspect of her personality, they could perhaps trigger her conversion. Or possibly just kill her right there and resolve the problem that way.

Her irrational fear of the place they stood to inherit made her refuse to remain behind and accompany her siblings on a tour of the immense ruins of Phoenix gate. Some of her fear was shared by the others, for it was on that very site that their childhood had been scarred and they had all been scattered to the winds.

On her return to school following the celebrations, Phoenix was confronted at the gates by her new acquaintances. Phoenix’s explanations were curtailed by the added interest in her, which comes into focus there at the gates. Among the suitors were muses and adepts who had an apprehension of something more than politics afoot in her affairs. Of course, all of this political maneuvering was but an annoying distraction to Phoenix and her peers, who honestly care very little about all this grown-up nonsense.

-----

Everything came apart in a moment the next morning. Alone, at dragon’s gate, she finally confronted the embodiment of her terror—the o’jin possessed compatriots of her brother Ash. Phoenix was ambushed on the beach and dragged into a cove. She had been in telepathic rapport with her friend Asia when her assailants attacked. They had taken advantage of her open mind to stun her. The link was cut as Phoenix recoiled in shock. It took her a moment to realize that she was about to be raped. She had confronted them many times over an obligation created by Ash which she or her twin would have to fulfill, and she thought that they had simply tired of waiting. While uncommon, rape was not unheard of, and her unique condition had drawn a lot of unwanted attention. Training dictated that her first priority was survival. She was already withdrawing into herself, as she had been taught, when a horrible intuition seized her. Looking into her assailants’ eyes, she saw her death waiting. Having no time to verify her suspicion, she acted. Calling on her training she tried to break away, but in the struggle something inside her snapped, and she exploded into a blood red rage. The presence of her mother within her seemed to be the only thing protecting her when her mind was assaulted by the demonic o’jin. To save her daughter, her mother drew upon an unused rapport between Phoenix and her deadly sister, with her destructive potential, uniting for one horrifying moment the divided aspects of her daughter selves. When she came to her senses, bathed in blood, she confronted her handiwork in shock. Her life, her future, was ruined.

She returned from the beach, half naked, bathed in blood and still gripping the sword she had wrested from her assailants. From the moment of her bloody confrontation, Phoenix’s mind has been almost unhinged from the normal passage of time. She hardly noticed the vai kume champion. He took her swiftly into custody and sent others on her path to investigate. He realized too late that something was amiss.

Her siblings rushed back home in alarm, to witness the aftermath of Phoenix’s ruthless defense. Ember’s dread vision was confirmed when a bloody Phoenix was brought in. She was contacted by Asia, Phoenix’s friend in the delegation. Asia, an acquaintance of Phoenix’s, was in communication with her when the event unfolded. She crisply related the details of the incident and then broke contact. Asia had also contacted her superiors, who directed her to investigate the report.

Blade. A bloody mess. Blade’s mount was dying. He had held on, waiting for someone to check on him. The vai kume, river, knelt at his side. Recognition was instant, and full of relief. Holding onto eye contact, he finally let go. The repossessed vai kume looked around at the others who had run to assist. The guard arrived to see one of their comrades standing in apparent shock in full view of the massacre. When one of them shouted for him to see to the wounded, he rushed forward to investigate another mortally wounded youth. He made no comment at the subtle seizures afflicting several of the guards, including the one who knelt at his side over the boy. They were fully trained vai he noticed. Three of them gave a knowing nod in his direction as the bodies they treated died.

The night dress and warm bed made her think it had only been a nightmare. The cuts and contusions made her realize that it had been a taste of hell. Thankfully, she had no coherent memory of anything after her conversation with Dancer. Approval met her meek, new demeanor, and some care was taken to ease her through the post traumatic shock. During her short convalescence, no one criticized or reprimanded her. Her chastisement had taken care of itself. The day after her recovery, Phoenix was taken by the ear and dressed for a court appearance with her patron and mentor. She was dragged along in ignorance, at the considered design of the clan head. By this time her mind could open up again to Ember, allowing her to silently warn Phoenix she was being arrested. Several statements were taken that day. Phoenix relayed brief impressions of the ambush and its conclusion. Ember revealed that she had been ambushed days earlier by the same group. Phoenix sat there and watched people come in and go out, things were not looking very good. Phoenix was just about to ask Ember what she had to do next when she was collared, the psionic shackle broke the link.

The corrupted vai kume, and his newly possessed vai regrouped as soon as they could and sought out their target. Phoenix was in custody, being debriefed by another vai kume. His subtle efforts to get custody of Phoenix failed, and he was forced to admit that he was a witness to the event. It was close enough to the truth. It also meant that he would not be left alone with her. This would delay their objective, but he still had the advantage. Dismissing himself, he considered the status of his mission. He had been fortunate. His mount had shadowed him as always and had been present when the other witnesses arrived. Three of his comrades had been able to break new mounts, but they still suffered from the deaths of their birth mounts and would never assimilate the identity they had been forced to assume. He would not be able to use them in his immediate plans, but they would be adequate to prepare a new trap. It would be up to him to drive her into their trap. Fortuitously, he was the star witness.

Pains were taken to clearly identify which of the two of them had been engaged on the beach. Ember would have been arrested and accused of slaughtering her alleged attackers outright. Phoenix was simply arrested, although she had clearly been the victim of the deadly assault. She could tell she was being treated as a suspect, not a victim, and the implications of that frightened her. Her instincts told her she had done only what she had to, but clearly no one else saw that. Honesty was her only defense, but it suddenly occurred to her that with her ignorance of the Avon covenant, honesty would only serve to convict her. Her sanity was in question. Phoenix was publicly stripped and suspended of title pending the outcome of her hearings. In the next few hours, the realization set in, the traps were double-edged. In defending themselves, they had set themselves up. The attacks were staged to provoke the most violent response, but the people behind the plot could not have imagined the fury unleashed by Ember and Phoenix—in the grip of their traumatic memories—as the true nature of the attackers triggered a traumatic flashback to the d’Ava massacre. Caught in a state of near omniscience, granted by her mother’s precognitive gift, she feared that she had the power to the negate the existence of herself, her siblings and even all of history as she knew it.

Things developed in the following days. The blood on her hands became the perfect excuse for enemies of their house and other political rivals to shatter the re-emergence of the Ava line—a threat to the imperial succession itself. The houses of dragon’s nest, representing their slain sons made the suit. The surviving sons of dragon’s nest were surrendered for inquisition and trial, under the assurance that Phoenix would be made to account for the untimely deaths.

Ember and Ash ignored the danger facing their house, they were concerned solely for the health and sanity of their other self. The three great tragedies of their lives had suddenly awakened them to a truth that awed and overwhelmed them. Ember, in particular, struggled with guilt over the bloodbath she caused through Phoenix, and the fear of losing her individuality. At once she had thought of taking their mother’s mind into her own to spare Phoenix’s mind. After that day on the beach, there was little doubt to their mother’s claim that the two of them were the same person—even more so than Ash was the same person as Ember, on either hand. She was not sure how to deal with another person living in her mind, but Phoenix needed help. Consulting with Asia and others through the path, they learned that Phoenix’s AEA citizenship offered no immunity or escape from the situation she was in. Because ajea, unlike ajeo, was not a member of the AEA, the situation was diplomatically sensitive. While Phoenix was a citizen of the AEA, established precedent dictated that the AEA had to respect the covenant under which Phoenix had been convicted and exiled. Nor was extradition possible, even if charges could be brought against Phoenix to justify such an attempt. Ember’s guilt finally overcame her fears.

Phoenix looked up in shock, her attention drawn to a commotion among the observers. Ember came forward and claimed responsibility for her twin’s actions. Ember had been forced to admit in court that she had verbally consented to the affair, which technically meant that Phoenix had consented by default. In Avon eyes, they were the same person. A self divided.

She was surprised when they threw her other-self into her cell with her, but relieved to have his shoulder to cry on for support. After a mild reprimand for shutting her out, her twin offered advice and moral support to strengthen her. As the hearings resumed, her twin now stood accused by her side. Phoenix could not comprehend her other-self’s thinking. Ember’s admission that she had caused the deaths—even though she claimed she was only defending her other-self from cold blooded murder disguised as rape—damned her. Nor did it count in her favor that Phoenix, as Ember or Phoenix, and the dragon’s nest sons were all in heat. They were all titled heirs, but Phoenix, as Ember, was the most disciplined, the closest in ability to an ideal, making her more responsible for the outcome. A case was made that Phoenix also could just as easily have crippled or incapacitated her assailants. One of the questions posed to the court was whether she had been justified to kill in her defense. Another was, how could she not be held accountable for actions committed by Ember using her body—like any individual, was she not responsible for controlling her own destructive impulses?.

They stood accused of charges ranging from murder to breach of discipline. To further damn them, Ember also confessed that the only way she could have done what she had done was if she had been possessed by bloodlust. It was unbearable. Her confessions were sure to get them both condemned.

In the course of cross-examination, it came out that Phoenix carried her mother’s intact mind. Faced with one mind disembodied, and one mind divided in two, between two bodies, it was inevitable that someone would suggest sorting the mess out. The trial was put on hold once the Avon ‘Dai got wind of the situation. If Ember i was mentally intact, her estate could not be transferred—and with a body available, especially that of a damaged daughter, her restoration took precedence. This intervention prevented the summary execution of Ember ii. The twins were given one last day, then they would be forced to merge so that their mother could take over one of their bodies. A self reunited and a ghost resurrected. The memory of the paradox remained, the sense that the three of them were all somehow the same person. Phoenix turned and found herself confronting her own image, a shock of recognition passed through her—different from the shockwave that passes through the crowd. Phoenix confronted herself, or rather her mother within her twin’s body. At long last the mind that had overshadowed hers was set free.

As the courts aligning themselves against her condemned her, they also came to fear her awesome voice and vision, which compelled the courts to consider paroling her rather than sentence her to death. For the final time, Phoenix was brought out of her cell to stand naked before the court. The weeks of inquisition had humiliated her. The conclusion of the court was that the seven whom she had killed had given her justification to defend herself, with clear intentions of rape, and assault, but the court did not find sufficient evidence to accuse the survivors of attempted murder. Fortunately, the capital charges against her, seven counts of murder, were reduced to lesser charges. Before court and house, she was convicted of provoked manslaughter, and breach of discipline. Her sentence, prove her discipline, or be formally stripped and exiled. Neither was a death sentenced, but the sentence they received was possibly far worse than execution. Her advocate advised her that the first condition of her exile, actually a kind of parole, would be the crippling or incapacitation of her psionic ability. She would be nailed—a means of crippling psi without damaging it or taking it away, by amplifying the noise generated by psionic activity. Any use of her psi would make her irresistible dragon bait. If she chose exile, her chances of survival were dim. Phoenix, united in body, but still a bit divided in mind, was left to contemplate her sentence. Ember explained that since this was all the consequence of her actions, the only way they could challenge condemnation was primarily through her actions as well. Having said that, she left the decision up to Phoenix. Phoenix asked a few more questions and considered Ember’s answers carefully. If she could prove herself in the arena—if she could demonstrate proper discipline in the face of a similar or worse threat—she would absolve herself of the crime. It was, after all, a test of her self-control. She would be able to fight, but not kill, to defend herself in a sexual or murderous assault by contracted vai. Unfortunately, Phoenix knew she didn’t trust herself not to go berserk and kill, even if she deliberately submitted. She didn’t understand it, but she knew there was nothing even she could do to control Ember’s bloodlust if it seized her again. Harsh as the wild promised to be, she decided that exile was better than the alternative. Trial by combat would become an execution if she lost control.

However they chose, there would be a second chance to resolve this mission. If they chose trial by combat, he would be ready, among the vai who would test them. That would be the least fortuitous choice, since his only option would be to kill them. But he had judged them carefully.

With the court at her heels, she stepped through the exile’s gate. Her personal ties to her past, her title, and her place in civilization were all stripped away, locked inside her mind.

Relieved of her burden of knowledge, she felt no Pain for the future that had been stripped away from her. With the support of Ash and the new Ember, she looked forward to the simple resolution of her struggle with the demands of heat. If only she did not remember the last precognition. The worst was yet to come.

Them. The three survivors of Phoenix’s onslaught faced their sentencing and chose exile. With that bit of interference out of their way, they set out in search of their prey. They had a mission to complete.

Observe changes.

At this point, given Phoenix’s age, it is more appropriate to establish her as a recently graduated academy prep student, on her way to the academy itself. The academy is located in the Pacific Northwest, North American continent, Earth. Her mother and father had a private island residence in Puget sound, about ten minutes flight from the main campus on Vancouver island. The eight-year term mentioned would in fact be spent entirely at the academy, at which point she would become a licensed psionic, with an obligatory eight-year tour in the psionic corps. At that point she would be on active duty as an avatar, serving the imperial Aegis.

As things come to a climax, with Phoenix facing the possibility of execution, events focus on resolving the paradox of the twins and their mother’s twilight existence. Ember, in particular, struggles with guilt over the bloodbath she caused through Phoenix, and the fear of losing her individuality. At first, she has this fear at the thought of taking their mother’s mind into her own to spare Phoenix’s mind. Deferred material.

The following material is culled from development notes to be used in the development of a daughter’s ruin.

A bloody confrontation.

Parole and patronage to compete for nai.

A first faltering step.

A pet, a toy.

Taunts and tortures.

Convicted and stripped, she was paroled to complete her mnao. The reality of her punishment finally hit her. She was no one, and she had done it to herself. Without a name, she legally did not possess herself, and therefor she could be possessed. Her only status within society was as a slave or a pet, and her only identification a pet name. Even with an owner, the covenant governing the unnamed offered her only a shadow of her lost “humanity”. She had to earn the right to wear even a sheet, and her new peers were far more strict about modesty. Her nakedness marked her as unpossessed, and unprotected. A target for sexual predation, a pressure valve within her society she had never known existed. If she got raped now, no one would do a thing to help her, and if she resisted, if she defended herself as lethally as before, she would be put down or hunted. She had voluntary ceased to be a person. She had become an animal.

With the loss of her past, she found she had no future. To go back and face her absolution would be death. To go forward she had to let go of herself, accept the loss and start over. If she did not, then she would live her life out like an animal. Struggling on the fringes of civilization. She needed a patron to rebuild her life. Transferred notes.

Sex theory.

Sex theory—one identity.

Sex theory—two bodies.

Sex theory—one soul.

Class mating.

A taste of things to come.

Sex technique.

Sex technique—tasting.

Sex technique—choosing.

Sex practice.

Sex practice—bed mating.

shifted.

While Phoenix dealt with the shock of seeing her mother alive—if somewhat transformed—her father arrived in response to the message x sent when y.

Confronted with the fact that the restored Ember was in heat, Alexander Morgan agreed to Dancer’s proposal to see her through her mnao.

in spite of the rush of relief and joy, she almost could not bring herself to forgive her mother for allowing her to believe she was dead for six terrible years.

But her anger, at the thought of what her deception must have cost her father, forced her to speak.

Her father appeared at that point and interrupted, reminding her that he was more than capable of addressing those concerns himself.

The goddess and the gates of paradox.

Daughter selves.

A daughter’s rise.

Opening.

A daughter’s ruin.

Ending.

A daughter reborn.

Epilogue.

A young girl becomes deeply entangled in intrigues, mysteries and paradox when she is forced to confront her alien origins.

Drafted into the entourage of an ambassadorial delegation to the Avon interstellar empire, Phoenix did not expect the trip to turn into a homecoming. Confronted with a deadly aspect of her own biology she was forced to embrace the culture and heritage of her true people and ended up confronted with a shocking inheritance. Phoenix, and a twin brother and sister who she apparently shared an identity with, struggled to deal with their mother’s enigmatic legacy and the unwanted attention it brought down on them all. The title became the root of many conflicts, culminating in a murderous assault on Phoenix. In the desperate struggle, she discovered the truth about her shattered childhood and the real relationship between herself and her twin sister. As a child, in the face of a massacre, Phoenix had manifested and embodied her own destructive potential. Using this living weapon, Phoenix had defended herself and avenged her slaughtered clan. Until confronted with the same enemies, her divided selves had remained separated, natural friends and rivals. Bruised and bloody, she was finally whole.

A young girl confronts a disturbing truth about her nature and identity when an unexpected twin returns from the human interstellar empire known as the Aegis.

As the appearance of this equal and opposite self provoked several plots to usurp the power and authority the twins stood to inherit, Phoenix was forced to confront a childhood tragedy and the legacy of madness and destruction it left behind. Manipulated by a hidden enemy, she was used to entrap her sister in a deadly plot. As her twin was being attacked, the wall between their minds suddenly crumbled and her own mind was ripped from its body to face death and destruction. United at last, the once divided girl faced the consequences of a murderous assault. To her shock, the mind of their mother had seized control of the abandoned body and damned them in court with her own testimony. Before Phoenix could reveal that her “twin” was not who everyone thought she was, the pair were sentenced and exiled to face their surviving enemies outside the protection of civilization. Their twin and brother, Ash, chose to aid them in attaining the only kind of protection their condemned status allowed them. Mother and daughter, compelled by biological and spiritual imperatives, ended up fighting over Ash even as their enemies netted them all in their final trap. Once again, seeking to delve into the mysteries of Phoenix gate, they were caught in a dual siege. With demons on one side and dragons on the other, the three had only each other as they faced a critical part of their destiny.

Development.

At the crux of a paradox are two stories which unfold back-to-back. In those stories, the stories of individual lives are intertwined. The first two books tell the first story, written from the perspectives of one person living two lives—quite literally. The nature of the whole story actually requires that one book contain the real beginning while the other book contains the real ending. The reason for this is the manner in which the divided selves evolve throughout the story. An opening sequence featuring Phoenix serves as the primary beginning, moving the audience from a future Earth into the alien environment of Avon culture. Closing sequences revealing the secret of their division, and the climax which restores them to unity serve as a secondary ending. Opening sequences featuring Ember, relating the elements hidden from Phoenix in the opening book, serve as a secondary beginning, reintroducing the story already in progress from an Avon perspective. A closing sequence featuring the united Phoenix serves as the primary ending, moving the audience into the gates of paradox. Ash, though a more unified aspect, is not the protagonist in either book. Ash represents the hope, the ambition, of becoming whole which the divided girls each seek to embrace. Ash’s perspective is presented in both books to complement the highly contrasted twins. In this way, his story is told. In each case the three offer different but related perspectives on events. The task here is to establish a real sense of one person divided by three different experiences of life.

The past-present.

Phoenix Ash Morgan and Phoenix Ember Morgan were born on ao’ajea to Phoenix Ember Nin of house Avon, wife of Alexander drake Morgan. Phoenix Ash Nin and Phoenix Ash Morgan both died in a terrorist massacre targeting the powerful house Avon on ao’ajea. Phoenix Ember Nin left ao’ajea with her traumatized daughter, joining her husband in the Aegis. This other young Phoenix slaughtered the terrorist hunt party that started the massacre, and then stumbled through the open Phoenix gate, arriving in Dream Gate on aeo’anth, the heart of the Avon empire, stunned by her own actions. Arriving in the imperial seat of house Avon, she found herself inducted into the Avon ‘Dai’s immediate household. Ember had been identified as the Avon daughter of Phoenix Ember Nin, or Avon Nin Ava, and the legitimate heir of Avon d’Ava and the province of Phoenix gate. Naturally, she had taken that name.

Due to the unusual manifestation, Phoenix grew up on two worlds unaware of her own duality. Ash rose from his own ashes, and confronted with a still open world gate, he stepped through to ao’ajeo. His own death immediately after caused the two identities to merge in ways almost impossible to sort out.

Several years later, Phoenix Ember Nin, along with the ship she served on and its crew, was devoured by a deadly and destructive alien power in the depths of space. Her mind was salvaged from the abyss of death by her daughter, Phoenix. Phoenix’s power fully manifested itself after this second tragedy, forcing the girl and her father to relocate to a psionic reservation. While Phoenix studied psionics, with equal devotion to physical training at her father’s urging, her twin was learning the arts and mysteries that lay behind the use of that very power, mastering deadly and efficient martial arts well suited to her nature as an angel of destruction. On ao’ajeo, Ash retained only hints of his true identity, but his potential exceeded that of the divided girls. Clearly, he was severed from his female aspect, nevertheless, he earned the patronage of the powerful house aza, masters of dragon’s nest. He even drew the attention of the aeomni master Dream.

The three aspects of young Phoenix remained isolated from each other, on worlds vast distances apart, until the destructive entity that killed their mother made a second appearance, forcing the Avon empire to make inquiries of its human allies. There was only one witness in the imperial Aegis who could testify as to the exact nature of the threat.

The present.

Phoenix Ember Morgan was snatched out of her home and dragged to ao’ajeo—the only world where the two empires would commingle—to share her memories of her mother’s death. Among the entourage that accompanied the Avon ‘Dai to the threat conference was the other half of the split-twinned girl, Ember. The content of her disclosure hit Ember the hardest of all present. The event provoked a confrontation between the two of them, bring the pair to the attention of both conference leaders. Admiral Dane and Enigma, the Avon ‘Dai. For different reasons, the duplicate girls disturbed Enigma and Dane. Each claimed to be the daughter of Phoenix Nin, and a brief examination of their memories confirmed it true, but each girl insisted that she had not had a twin sister. Each accused the other of being a clone. In spite of instructions from their superiors to get along or avoid each other, they caused enough of a disturbance to be confined to quarters with each other.

As roommates they could not sustain a constant battle, especially not with the both of them in heat and struggling to hide it. Phoenix had discharged her primary duty of the mission. As a member of the entourage, she had to make regular reports and serve on rotation as an escort and bodyguard. For the most part, it was a working vacation, and her first taste of independence. Ember responded to her passion for exploration and entertainment. That passionate nature, combined with being in heat, made Phoenix extremely attractive to Ember. As much as Phoenix resisted accepting her Avon heritage, once she discovered the reprieve Ember could give her from heat, she finally accepted Ember as more than a friend or rival.

Phoenix was within reach of the only person who could help her truly overcome the first onset of heat—Ash. As hard as it was to relive that devastating loss of her mother, as strange as it had been to confront an unlikely twin, and as frightening as it was to face returning to the world where her childhood had been scarred, coming to the ao system saved her life. Ash quickened to Phoenix’s presence and proceeded to track her down. In spite of the two of them both being on ao’ajeo, she barely avoided encountering him there. When she went from angel’s gate on ao’ajeo to dragon’s gate on ao’ajea to meet her father for a visit to her mother’s old apartment, her symptoms finally overwhelmed her. Ash, drawn to her by instinct, arrived at the scene in time to save their lives. The two of them embraced in heat, almost incapable of coherent thought, and then parted in fear and confusion. What Phoenix perceived as a rape was revealed for the life-saving act it was. That wordless consummation relieved enough biological pressure for her to make it home. Or rather, to the apartment her mother and father had kept in dragon’s gate—where her condition could be treated.

From that initial meeting, things proceeded to become more complicated and intriguing by the moment. Phoenix and Ember continued to deny any relationship, jealously guarding their own identities even as they were riveted to each other in fascination. They had at least agreed not to discuss it. Phoenix confessed to her anonymous coupling when she returned to their suite. Ember comforted her, confiding that she too had turned to a stranger for help. She tried to resist, but it was what Avon had to do if they lost their other half. The event had forced Phoenix to finally accept what she was, for it was the only thing that made her actions bearable. Their friendship and rivalry was tested when it became clear that both of them had turned instinctively to Ash as the only succor from heat. Ash was shocked at the sight of both of them, he had assumed that they were both the same person. His instincts toward both of them were the same. Now that he was forced to examine it, there were differences. With her human perspective, Phoenix saw Ash as a distinct individual, an ideal lover, and perfect potential mate. Due to the assumption that she was merely human, Phoenix had resisted the onset of heat until it had threatened to kill her. As native Avon, Ash had not dared to resist. Isolated as he had been, he had been forced to turn to others to alleviate their symptoms. He suspected the same for Ember. As a consequence, they had been prolonging heat indefinitely. What they saw in each other was typically Avon. The promise of independence and unity. It was difficult for them to express to Phoenix the humiliation of having no other half and being forced to turn to others for reprieve. Phoenix struggled with the sense of debt they had incurred with their friends and mentors.

Ironically, Ash and Ember had been protegees of Dancer and Dream, who were complements.

Phoenix and Ember took Ash to a private audience with the Avon ‘Dai. As a result, the three of them were quickly confronted by their mother’s legacy. Enigma had taken Ember’s identity for granted once it had initially been established, and the appearance of Phoenix had only been an oddity. Confronted now with Ash, questions had to be asked. They had to resort to genetic identification. Ash was easily identified as the male aspect of the long-lost heir of the Ava branch of the imperial house of Avon—a genetic duplicate of a person who had lived at least ten thousand years ago, and quite possibly of the first generation of the Avon race. For Phoenix and Ember, the test confirmed them both to be the female aspect and complement of Ash. Among humans, twin sisters were common, but the nature of Avon made it an impossible explanation. In spite of that, exhaustive testing confirmed them to be uniquely related in body, mind, spirit and soul. Ash’s instinct about the girls had been correct. They had to be recognized for who they were.

Many of those suits were marriage proposals, and almost as many were challenges to duel. The three struggled to keep abreast of these suits, as they delved into the estate itself.

She had resided at dragon’s gate for some time and was recognized as a prominent member of house Avon. Her personal suite was a mystery in itself, but it was only the beginning of a trail of intrigues and paradoxes—like her personal journals in which she described the lives of her children up to the end of that very year, and her own death several years before. Her training in psionics was largely grounded in the precise methodology of human science. In a way she could remember writing all of those entries, and her instincts told her to avoid those memories and the terrible darkness they brought to her dreams. Her nightmares and disturbing memories were of a future that was neigh upon her, and she stubbornly refused to face either. Manipulated by a hidden enemy, Ember was used to entrap her sister in a deadly plot.

Her irrational fear of the place they stood to inherit made her refuse to accompany her siblings on a tour of the immense ruins of Phoenix gate. Some of her fear was shared by the others, for it was on that very site that their childhood had been scarred, and they had all been scattered to the winds. She had confronted them many times, aware of an obligation created by Ash, which she or her twin would have to fulfill, and she thought that they had simply tired of waiting. Her opinion changed when they ambushed her on the beach and tried to take possession of her mind. She was saved by the ghost of her mother, who drew on an unused rapport between Phoenix and her deadly sister. As Phoenix was being attacked, the wall between the twins’ minds suddenly crumbled and Ember’s mind was ripped from its body to face death and destruction. The minds of Phoenix and Ember united as their mother’s mind descended upon Ember’s vacant body.

Ash, with an entirely different Ember, rushed back to Phoenix’s side in alarm, to witness the aftermath of her ruthless defense. United at last, the once divided girl faces the consequences of the murderous assault. The blood on her hands would become the perfect excuse for other enemies and political rivals of their house to shatter the re-emergence of the Ava line—a threat to the imperial succession itself. Ash hardly cared about the danger facing their house, he was concerned only for the health and sanity of Phoenix. From the moment of her bloody confrontation, Phoenix had been almost unhinged by the combination of her mother’s memories of the past and future, fearing that she had the power to negate the existence of herself, her siblings and even all of history as she knows it. The three great tragedies of her life suddenly awaken her to a truth that awes and overwhelms her.

To her shock, the mind of her mother had seized control of the abandoned body and damns them in court with her own testimony. As the courts aligning themselves against her condemn her, they also come to fear her awesome voice and vision, which compels the courts to parole her rather than sentence her to death—and the condition of her parole was the crippling of her psionic ability. Relieved of her burden of knowledge, she does not feel the pain of the future that had been stripped away from her. Their twin and brother, Ash, chooses to aid them in attaining the only kind of protection their condemned status allows them. With his support, Phoenix looks forward to the simple resolution of her struggle with the demands of heat.

The worst was yet to come. Mother and daughter, compelled by biological and spiritual imperatives, end up fighting over Ash even as their enemies net them all in their final trap. In the course of these two stories, Phoenix was actually looped on herself, appearing in memory as her own mother then taking on the abandoned body of Ember to become her own twin. Returned to life, through the union of her divided “daughter’s” minds, she faces a future she had once thought lost as a rival for Ash’s affection. With memories of events yet to come—for the younger versions of herself—she was certain to emerge at least partly intact from this paradox. In the days after exile, as Avonlea, she confronted one of the troubling aspects of her future memory. The mind of her own male counterpart was lost in the tangle of her son’s mind. In the near future her “son” and “daughter” would vanish into the wilderness never to be seen again. Her memories of the future end with their disappearance. If she could not recover the essence of avonleo from him before he vanished, she would never recover the complement to her own identity. She would forever remain only half of herself, never to attain her full potential. Thus, she and her “daughter” ended up being rivals over aveo. Ash.

The future-past.

Due to a paradox, Phoenix was and will be cast back in time to witness her own conception and then end up trapped in stasis for ten thousand years impregnated by her own embryo.

The present-future.

Events told in the epilogue to this story arc, a daughter reborn.

The present-past.

Events told in the next story arc.

Because her seed of rebirth was stolen from her in a terrible assault, her efforts to recover hers led to her finding the seed of her birth. After the death of her friends—her true parents—she ended up in possession of the seed they conceived as they were destroyed. Recovered from the remains of her true parents and delivered to Phoenix by mistake, it was easy to mistake for her lost seed. The lost seed ended up in the possession of the dark Phoenix who had orchestrated her parents’ deaths. Promise gave birth to Phoenix’s true Avon daughter, who went on to found the Ava line, organize the houses of ara, asha, and ana into the foundation of a new empire and carried the mantle of that empire for several generations. Of course, that part happened while Phoenix was trapped in Phoenix gate, thanks to her paradoxical pregnancy and the very devices that bound and harnessed the power of paradox to create the gates themselves.

Rescued from stasis a few years before she was destined to give birth to herself, she struggled with amnesia and paradox. Shortly before the tragedy that had scarred her childhood, she realized that crippling division would in time prevent her from being trapped in an endless temporal loop.

In the wake of daughter selves, a united Phoenix emerges from the loop of paradox, facing the future unknown for the first time in almost two decades.

avarashana—founding houses of the Avon empire. Avon naomi Nin Ava.

Formal name of naked Dancer Phoenix-Ember, Av.

Alexander drake Morgan.

Husband, Phoenix Ember Nin, legal father, Phoenix Ember Morgan.

Alexandrea drake Morgan.

Wife, Phoenix Ash Nin, mother, kimberly, naomi Nin.

Paradox does not kill. It appears to destroy when it actually restores. The danger of paradox was that it can trap and isolate, and in truth that was death to those who live. How ironic then that the most fearsome aspect of paradox was the way it reveals the soul in truth and gives truth to the soul.

Av-0000-0-daughter selves.

The time has come for her to discover her racial identity and shed the individuality with which she had grown up among humans. Developmental material for this project includes, but is not limited to, the material and notes for the stories originally called Avonlea, Avon mnao, daughter selves, dreaming alone, dreaming as one, and dreamer in the dream. overview.

overview expansion.

establishment—Phoenix Ember Morgan, Alexander Morgan, Phoenix Ember Nin i.

Encounters and Confrontations—Arthur  Remington, Samuel Malthus.

Encounters and Confrontations—Aegis security intelligence agency, avatar program.

Encounters and Confrontations—joint assembly—Aegis senate, Avon imperial court.

roommating.

housemating.

bedmating.

bloodbath.

arrest.

arraignment.

court.

sentence.

Overview expansion.

She wondered—in embarrassed amusement—what he would think if he knew what kind of fantasies her memories of him had inspired. Passion’s siblings Pain and Pleasure, had arrived in Dream Gate. Growing up in the interstellar human civilization but growing up Avon none the less. (Flashback to the d’Ava massacre. Her awkwardness was shared by her father, Alexander Morgan, who joined her in her mother’s house—apparently nonplussed to find her an exotic. As the adults excused the younger generation Phoenix was handed off to Pleasure. As she stood alongside her people and tried to focus on the proceedings she could feel members of the Avon delegation wondering what she had been doing on the human side of the room.

Phoenix had spent her childhood largely among humans, and had developed a firm female identity. As the two of them squared off, Ember appeared. Phoenix Ash Morgan and Phoenix Ember Morgan had been born on ao’ajea to Phoenix Ember Nin of house Avon, wife of Alexander drake Phoenix. An unquestionable attraction existed between them, as powerful as yin and yang, dragon and Phoenix, aelyn and aeslyn. Encounters and confrontations—dream.

Ash took Phoenix to see his mentor, Dancer’s female half, dream, who listened to, and responded to Phoenix’s apprehensions of heat and choosing. Not having found an answer to their problem, they went looking for dream.

Before the eyes of the entire community—and the delegation as well—Ash and Phoenix lost their ‘virginity’ to the expert ministrations of dream, whereby they became adults and were granted sexual freedom.

Ember had been identified as the genetic twin of Phoenix Ember Nin, hence she took that name. She had missed the opportunity with Passion, and planned to correct that this time. Enigma agreed to make a place in her home for the lord of ara, her children by storm, and her other children fostered by contract to the d’Avon, in the hope that she would be regain a place in her sister’s heart. Once again she resolved to do it, but as before, when she started to approach it, her nerve would break, and she would have to be rescued by Ember.

Some of her fear was shared by the others, for it was on that very site that their childhood had been scarred, and they had all been scattered to the winds.

Of course all of this political maneuvering was but an annoying distraction to Phoenix and her peers; who honestly care very little about all this grown up nonsense.

Relieved of her burden of knowledge, she felt no pain for the future that had been stripped away from her. The eight-year term mentioned would in fact be spent entirely at the academy, at which point she would become a licensed psionic, with an obligatory eight year tour in the psionic corps. At first she has this fear at the thought of taking their mother’s mind into her own to spare Phoenix’s mind. She had voluntarily ceased to be a person. Shifted.

Av - alt. Phoenix. pro - ttvv.

Episodic presentation.

The open eye, Av’s paradox i - mnao.

Dream gate, 9·996, the jen tempas - mai - one month.

A revelation.

A reunion.

Fast friendship, implications.

Implications confronted.

When lovers become rivals.

Nightmares and intrigue.

Entering each other’s confidence.

A proposal.

Apprehensions of heat and choosing.

Thoughts of mortality.

Dragon’s bath, 9·997, the ju taiko - mi - seventeenth year.

The body of thought, naomi.

Arriving in dragon’s bath. Introductions.

House introductions.

House mating.

The end of innocence.

A time of choosing, a time of tasting.

Thoughts of sex and death.

Room mating.

A strangeness in reflection.

One identity, two bodies.

One soul.

Tasting.

Choosing.

Bed mating.

The initiation - one night, mna.

Initiation, a public ritual of opening.

Sexual freedom.

The embrace of self - one morning, light and shadow.

Heat, embracing herself.

The open mind, Av’s paradox ii - mnao.

Dragon’s gate, 9·997, ju kaiyo - dao’Ava.

The death of the Avon ‘Dai.

Exploring and rediscovering herself.

The concept of other - mnai.

The apprehension of sexuality.

The time of choosing - arla liymb.

The bunker, ides of tegal ni hayr.

The Ava title - two weeks -.

The lord of the court.

Obligation asserted.

The taste.

The forbidden touch.

Intrigue.

A promise-bond, shonomane.

Children of anket.

Approached by demons.

Questioning her sanity.

Betraying herself.

The rape of Ember.

A bloody mess.

Her sanity questioned.

Arrest and formal accusation.

The accusation, Av’s paradox iv - three months.

The trial of Ash and Cinder.

Trial, humiliation and despair.

A self divorced.

Convicted, sentenced and unpromised.

A pet, a toy; taunts and tortures.

A possession; a slave to necessity.

The key to the threshold, tegal yn caoi - a legend.

The exploration of tegal ni hayr - a trap.

Fast friendship, implications - Ember, Amber, Pain, Pleasure -.

Ember was distracted from her own questions about what she was doing there when Pain and Pleasure arrived to visit Passion and Amber for a few days. She encountered each of them separately before she was introduced to either, so at first she mistook Pleasure for Passion when they met in the baths and ended up in a more embarrassing position with Pain, mistaking him for Pleasure.

Probing histories.

She returns to ao’ajea, making a perilous journey back to face her sentence. Forced to return in the manner she fled—on foot, and naked—her steadily advancing pregnancy exposes her to hazards her formerly sleek athletic body had been able to evade. This time, more than the last time, she is subject to the law of the jungle. She learns a great deal about herself from the sophisticated simplicity of animal existence. Well on the way to her destination, she gives birth to her daughter-self. When she regains her strength and tone, she appears at the imperial court to face and survive her absolution. Submitting to a potentially lethal test, at best her rape, at worst her execution, she can end her exile.

Ember—it was hard to go back alone. It was hard to turn her back on the door out of exile that did not promise death. It was hard pretending that nothing had happened, for all who saw her could see, could feel the change that had taken place, even if they could not put their finger on it. Saying nothing, she shed the vestments of low culture and arrived naked before the Avon’dsai. Her friends, her family, all stood by as she presented herself for her absolution. They also told her of her twin’s transformation.

She arrived to learn that her grandmother had been assassinated. Even as she watched, the dance of succession began to unfold. Her mother, her aunt, whom she had never even met, and her sisters were gathering to see who would be awarded the mantle of ara’dai. Of them all, her mother was most qualified, despite her estrangement. To their surprise, it was ··· who was named ara’dai.

None of the events that followed made any sense to her. It was as if her dream of death had somehow proven true, and this was some sort of afterlife. Her every conceivable need had been catered to without a word on her part. She had been bathed, groomed, fed and now housed in palatial style. As she circled the room, she could still feel the awe—and the fear that roiled beneath it—that had gushed out of the deepest parts of the people’s minds. It remained incomprehensible, and thinking about it was wearing her out. She finally made her way to the huge silk curtained bed. As she parted the curtains, she realized that there was someone in the bed. She had a moment’s fear that they had even provided for her pleasure. After what had happened to her, she did not know if she could deal with the thought of sex. Whoever it was had noticed her standing there and was sitting up to peer through the gauzy silk. Thrusting the curtain aside, she opened her mouth to tell the person to leave, when recognition hit. The person on the bed was her.

Her twin by death gave her no choice but to understand what had really happened that night in the ruin. She was the dragon that had eaten her, and the situation they had stumbled into frightened them both. It was a relief when they stumbled across the memory of the conspiracy within the household of the Avon ‘Dai. They welcomed the distraction and put their heads together to devise a plan to warn the Avon ‘Dai and expose the hidden threat. After some argument and experimentation, they managed to assume the guises of Ash and Ember and slip out of dragon’s bath. Sneaking through the caoi, they arrived in dragon’s gate.

The murder of Coal and Cinder.

Set up, a victim accused - the fatal step.

The morning after, she was startled awake to find herself in her lover’s dismembered embrace… even as she was discovered in this compromising position, her mind retained only a chaos of images and no clear memory of the acts for which she immediately stood suspect. All she could remember was going into one of her fits.

The weeks of inquisition humiliated her, even as they exonerated her of any guilt in Coal’s murder. The charges of murder dropped away, but she was conviceted of manslaughter and the excessive use of force. Her accusers maintained that with her martial skill she could have crippled her assailants, instead of killing them. Before her assembled friends and family, she was stripped of mantle, voice and name and driven into exile.

They also told her of her twin’s transformation. She had been torn apart by something, perhaps the very thing that had killed Coal. Unlike Coal, her twin was prepared for, though she had not yet taken, the test. Her twin, having risen from her mortal dismemberment was now vai. The two would face each other in the arena, her twin among the local vai available to execute her absolution.

The morning of her sentence, she met her twin and realized that her sister had not survived her attack after all. To her suprise, she recognized it only because it had been within her so long. And for a brief time, it had manifested itself in her. Her sister was no more; in her place, in her very body and spirit, was her nemesis.

In the course of the engagement, she put much of it together. She realized that what had befallen her twin ought to have befallen her at a very young age, or it should have killed her as it had Coal and so much of her mother’s family. The dismembering gave it all away. It just hit her, like that. The picture that resolved was not pleasant, and at the least, she knew that her stubbornness had resulted in the deaths of two people she had loved. Her quest for an answer to what had maimed her, and more importantly why, was far from over. Her nemesis, knowing her thoughts as surely as she must, would not let her live to fulfill that quest. Of course, she forgot that her mind was no longer crippled.

Pinned in a corner, Ember finally sees through her enemies and discovers their dangerous motives. Though they tempt and torture her painfully, she realizes that death was better than helping them begin the destruction of her race.

Ember's escape was almost worse than death, costing her everything she values and leaving her spiritually and emotionally charred.

Harsh as the wild proved to be, she felt her decision to accept exile was better than the alternative. If she could prove in the arena, if she could demonstrate proper discipline in the face of a similar or worse threat, she would absolve herself of the crime. She didn’t trust herself not to go berzerk and kill, even if she deliberately submitted. She didnt understand it, but she knew the bloodlust she had felt had something to do with the scars in her mind, and there was nothing she could do to control it until she had dealt with the damage to her mind.

The codes governing the unnamed, and her exile, would offer her a shadow of her “humanity”. Her status was that of a cat or a dog. Her name was that of a pet. Low culture was far stricter about modesty, which she learned the hard way. To some, she would not even be able to speak. Fortunately, her personal quest took her to a region where the compulsion held faint sway.

Honesty was her only defense, but it suddenly occurred to her that with her ignorance of the Avon covenant, honesty would only serve to convict her.

The trial of Amber and Ember.

Second strike, a prejudiced trial….

Arraignment. Ember and Amber were publically stripped and suspended of title pending the outcome of their hearings. Ember could tell they were being treated as suspects, not as victims, and the implications of that frightened her. Her instincts told her they had done only what they had to, but clearly no one else saw that. Honesty was her only defense, but it suddenly occurred to her that with her inexpereince as a mortal, honesty would only serve to convict her.

Court. The houses of kathet yng, representing their slain sons, made the suit. Their surviving sons were surrendered for inquisition and trial, under the assurance that Ember would be made to account for the untimely deaths. Nor did it count in her favor that Ember was regarded a prostitute in the possession of the goddess and the kathet yng sons were all in heat. They were all titled heirs, but Ember was the most disciplined, the closest in ability to an ideal, making her more responsible for the outcome. A case was made that Ember could just as easily have crippled or incapacitated her assailants, and the question posed to the court was whether she had been justified to kill in her defense. She stood accused of charges ranging from murder to breach of discipline.

Consulting with others through the path, particularily her human friend Morgan, Ember learned that her AEA citizenship offered no immunity or escape from the situation she was in. Because ajea was not a full member of the AEA, the situation was diplomatically sensitive. While Ember was a citizen of the AEA, established precedent dictated that the AEA had to respect the covenant under which Ember had been convicted and exiled. Nor was extradition possible, even if charges could be brought against Ember to justify such an attempt. After a mild reprimand for shutting her out, her friend gave advice and moral support to strengthen Ember’s morale. Whatever might happen, Morgan believed she was justified in her actions. She was surprised when they threw Amber into her cell with her, but relieved to have her shoulder to cry on for support.

Blade signaled his men—the surviving assailants—when he was called on to identify them and their part in the event. As their sire, he had their full, silent cooperation going into trial. He stood before the court and testified on Ember’s behalf. He provided sufficient expert testimony to establish that their motives were hostile. He also allowed himself to grudgingly admit that she had used unrestrained lethal force once she had taken an offensive stance.

The trial went against them, all of the evidence twisting under examination to unquestionably condemn Amber. During the trial, Ember contemplated the history of Amber and Coal. It was not hard to see that with Coal dead and the two of them framed for it, their house lost all of its heir in one sweep. A noble house of blood clan of autumn court, Ava was known as the eternal flame, a house favored by the goddess. No one knew who destroyed the keepers of the caoi, or why. Ember dared to pose the question, who would benefit from the fall of Ava? Who could still benefit from the deaths of Amber and herself? The questions were avoided, and the court was distracted by questions about Amber and Coal, the only survivors found in the ruins of the d’Ava. With the decimation of the house, there was no one who could say for sure if the two were natural or paladin twins. The children did not even understand the question when it was put to them. Amber and Coal had perfectly complimented each other, and given what they had suffered, they were allowed to grow up together in the house of Avon as normal twins, rather than as paladin twins.

Amber was not so lucky. Her actions were judged with extreme prejudice. Before court and house, she was convicted of unprovoked slaughter. Before the court could pronounce sentence of execution, Ember spoke up, dragging the court back to the point, presenting a solid argument connecting the earlier attack on herself with the attack on Ava twelve years earlier. She managed to sway the court, and prevent a sentence of death, but only by asserting that Amber could only be convicted if she, Ember herself, was equally guilty and deserving of death. To the shock of many, that was indeed the judgment of the court, although a lesser sentence of exile was passed on both of them. A condition of absolution was also offered, a trial by combat, so to speak.

A self divorced - convicted, sentenced and unpromised.

The weeks of inquisition had humiliated her.

The conclusion of the court was that the seven whom she had killed had given her justification to defend herself, with clear intentions of rape, and assault, but the court did not find sufficient evidence to accuse them of attempted murder.

Before court and house, she was convicted of provoked manslaughter, a breach of discipline. Her sentence; prove her discipline or be formally stripped and exiled.

Neither were being sentenced to death, but the sentence they received was far worse than execution. They were nailed—a means of crippling their psi without damaging it or taking it away, by amplifying the noise generated by psionic activity, which made them irresistible dragon bait. If they chose exile, their chances of survival were dim.

Him. However she chose, there would be a second chance to resolve this mission. If she chose trial by combat, he would be ready, among the vai who would test her. That would be the least fortuitous choice, since his only option would be to kill her. But he had judged her carefully.

They were left to contemplate their sentence. Amber explained that since this was all the consequence of her actions, the only way they could challenge condemnation was through her actions as well. Having said that, he left the decision up to her.

Phoenix asked a few more questions and considered Amber’s answers carefully. Unfortunately, she didn’t trust herself not to go berserk and kill, even if she deliberately submitted. She didn’t understand it, but she knew there was nothing she could do to control the bloodlust she had felt, if it seized her again.

Trial by combat would become her execution if she lost control. With Amber at her heels, she stepped through the exile’s gate. The conception of self, Av’s paradox v.

The possession of self, Av’s paradox vi.

Av’s paradox vii - one evening.

The test of nai - one month, nai.

The academy - four years.

The taste of ashes, academy graduation.

The test of vai - one day - vai.

Amber quickly decided that exile was the only option that offered a chance of survival, but she left Ember’s decision up to her. Ember asked a few more questions and considered Amber’s answers carefully. Neither was being sentenced to death, but the sentence they received was far worse than execution. Before they went into exile, they would be nailed—a means of crippling their psi without damaging it or taking it away by amplifying the noise generated by psionic activity, which made them irresistible dragon bait. If they chose exile, their chances of survival were dim. She didn’t understand it, but she knew there was nothing she could do to control the bloodlust she had fel,t if it seized her again. With Amber at her heels, she stepped through the exile’s gate.

As Amber explained to Ember what life as an exile entailed, the reality of the punishment finally hit her. She had become an animal. She was no one, and she had done it to herself.

The three survivors of Ember’s onslaught faced their sentencing and chose exile. Ember considered the option of patronage, the prospect of starting a new life. It had occurred to her that she might remain trapped in Passion’s place for as long as the body lived. She dared not suggest such an idea to Amber, but she was tempted. Only, she found it hard to make the decision to claim what was left of Passion for herself. Her choice was made for her when the survivors of the gang that had trapped her before began stalking her. When she told a member of the court who sentenced her, she was reminded of what she had already learned. Legally, she was an animal now, and the law offered her, and them, no protection. The law ignored what animals did to each other. If they caught her, they could do whatever they wanted to her, and suffer only mild punishment, if any. Likewise, if she crippled, maimed or killed another animal, for her own survival, the law would take no interest. He made a point of reminding her that if the families of her victims chose to hunt her down, there were loopholes which would give them a legal right to do so. Ember had not considered that when she had made the choice that made her a defenseless target to any who wished to do her harm. If she did not find a patron soon, she would have to flee. Only, where was she supposed to go?.

In the face of all of this, there was literally nothing their friends, family and allies could do for them. Not that no one tried to help them. They were told to flee to sanctuary, there was a house that honored the Ava name, and would willingly take them in. It would make them slaves, but they would be alive. In the world she had lost Ember could not expect to have been anything more. So, she took flight with Amber.
