Exercise in Imagination Paper (due Week One)


Rich images often create inspiration and imagination. The purpose of this assignment is to spark creativity and begin the creative writing process. Select a visual art piece (painting, drawing, photograph) from a gallery, online gallery, museum, or book. In a 1,050- to 1,750-word paper, write a creative piece (poem, dialogue, essay, or short story) on your reaction to the visual art.  Let your imagination run. Consider the following questions to help spark your imagination:

a.  What story comes to mind; what images come to mind?
b.  What dialogue is taking place in the story among the character(s)?
c.  Consider what might have happened before or what might happen after.
d.  Describe the culture of the image.
e.  What is the main object or image in the artwork? What is its purpose? What is the person thinking?
f.   Consider why this piece was created, or the perspective of the artist.
g.  What do you think about when viewing this piece?  Any particular memories, emotions, or reactions?



The painting "Summer Comes" by Kyena (http://kyena.deviantart.com/art/Summer-comes-30814005) was posted on DeviantArt on March 24, 2006, receiving special notice on April 12, 2006 as a "Daily Deviation" or a featured artwork on the popular artists' community site. The painting featues a girl in a white summer dress in a windy field, holding the strings to two balloons behind her back. One balloon can be seen floating away in the background, where fluffy, white clouds are seen in a bright, blue sky. The point of view is from the ground, looking up through brilliant red flowers, and some of the petals are caught on the wind. It is not hard to imagine that the observer lies in the grass, fallen from his last, desparate attempt to catch the balloon that got away from the girl. The focus of his eyes is not on the distant, rising rogue; he gazes up into the girl's face, observing the way the light caresses the side of her face and turns her hair to gold. As the subject of an exercise in imagination, this painting has great potential for testing the notion that a picture paints a thousand words. 

It was a warm, spring day at the end of May. The field was anonymous, one that might be found anywhere in the world--almost. Anywhere in North America, or Europe, really. The sun was generous with its touch. The bright green grass and brilliant red blooms were full of the promise of summer. The wind tugged on the light fabric of the girl's dress as she approached me.  Sprawled on the ground, I looked up through the crimson blooms. The loose ends of the ribbon swaying in the breeze drew my eyes to the string of pink flowers in her hair. 

Her pose was demure, as she walked up with a serious look on her face, showing concern in the wake of laughter. "Are you alright?" 

I take a deep breath and give her a reassuring smile. "I'm fine," I assured her, watching as the balloon I was chasing made good on its escape. I could still feel its ribbon slipping though my fingers during the last leap of my pursuit. "I almost had it on that last jump," I declared, rising to my feet and dusting myself off. 

"It's just a balloon. No need for any heroics," she chided me, turning, hands still clasped behind her back holding the strings of the rogue's siblings as she watched it dance and leap in the wind. Shifting her grip on the remaining balloon strings, she brought her right hand up to shade her eyes. "Once they get free, they don't waste any time, do they?" she asked rhetorically as the balloon turned into a faint speck in the sky. 

"Not so much," I agreed, stepping up beside her and giving the speck a jaunty, farewell salute. 



