from common origins...


The common origin of the dragon and the phoenix. In order to give both characters a common origin, in the sense of being unextraordinary in themselves, they would have to be completely disassociated from the roles of the dragon and the phoenix. In effect, one would be just a player, and the other just a character. As a result, few if any of the existing themes and ideas could be retained and those that could be retained would have to be completely revised.  

A possability exists for having the game, with the intervention of a demon, serve as the means for creating a complimentary incarnation of the protagonist. In effect, a player falls victim to demonic possession and ends up reincarnated in the game just before play is suspended allowing the captive minds to be liberated -- because the demon is in stasis during their retreival. The new incarnation grows and matures during the interruption, as the game is advanced to introduce a new campaign to deal with the demon problem. 

This is a completely seperate and unique premise that could be used to set up the eve of paradox threshold story. A player who is male in the aegis but plays a female in aeirn is possessed by a demon who grants his secret wish. "I wish I had been born like this" being the key phrase that the demon used to justify claiming the player's body in-game. Of course, the player was simply ejected from the game, but not before the demon conceived and reincarnated the player as her daughter. 

The game is suspended and he is forced to prepare a new character for the new campaign--this time as a male, at the insistence of his companions, who found him too unnerving in a female role. Of course, there is now a living, female incarnation of him native to aeirn. 

There are a few uncertain threads, and a tendency for him to not bother with the establishment phase, or to subject himself to it at the lowest level to avoid having to experience growing up as a boy all over again. 

That underscores the need for the game to offer the option of objective and subjective character creation, development and establishment. 

A story along these lines would deal with the legacy of her conception and the destruction of her mother, the legacy of that traumatic event leading into the introduction and interaction of the two incarnations, culminating in the moment when she assimilates him. That story is also the preface to the eve of paradox.

This approach also reverts to the demon as the cause of her psychic trauma and his final displacement into aeirn and his assimilation by her. In the process, she gains access to the threshold interface and his knowledge of the aegis. This simplifies her acquisition of aegis related information, though it undermines her identity and origin as a girl.   

Because an outside origin for the girl would undermine the story somewhat, either a two-stage incarnation or a division of a child with ambisexuality -- a human familiar -- would be better. Since the alternate story now favors that option, a bridge between project approaches exists. The only necessary correction would be a revision of the domain concept to address souls of creation, in plural. The basis for which is already established. Of course, the whole project can be simplified by just dealing with the child of a familiar. 

