unadapted

The demon originated in the domain of Aegis and the souls it captured gave rise to the domain of Aeirn in the demon's shadow. 

The demon incorporated part of itself into the system as the goddess Aeai. The purpose of the system the demon set up was to harvest souls of the Aegis. As players, souls of the Aegis unwittingly created new incarnations of themselves into which they are drawn at death. 

The point of collecting souls was to find a soul of its own; unfortunately, the demon was intent on assimilating the soul it sought, instead of allowing itself to be assimilated. 


The cabal is a conspiracy of adversaries, each seeking to dominate and devour the demon in the hopes of becoming the soul of creation, each needing the help of others to make the demon vulnerable to such an assault. This makes for an unstable alliance of opportunistic rivals at best. They cooporate to create a situation to their advantage and then compete to exploit it. 
 
: a plot : engineered by the inner gods or the lost souls in an attempt to draw the demon down where it could be confronted. They would be pawns in that scheme; the architects of that plan would hunt them down and attempt to rouse the demon to fulfill their plot. 

:: branch 2 :: unadapted

If the parents cross the threshold and confront the demon externally in the domain, they would discover the demon was carrying their child -- and because the child's soul had embraced the demon, or at least part of the demon -- the goddess Aeai -- the child could potentially become the soul of creation. 

The demon assumed that it could not be assimilated by a human mind, in spite of the fact that Aeai was incorporated as the child's angel when she was assimilated. 

The opening chapter in the story arc is the story of the assimilation of Aeai. As the part of the demon embraced by the child's soul, Aeai becomes self conscious as the mother of the first mortal incarnation of that soul, manifesting in the androgynous form abstracted from the two sexes her stolen body can assume -- the form of an angel. 

Aeai is assumed to be the demon when she is first confronted by the child's parents. When they realize that she is an incarnation of the goddess, their discovery is passed on to the lost souls and inner gods that conspired to summon the demon by their agents in the Academy. 

Aeai is also mistaken for a fallen angel by other fallen angels, fragments of the demon's psyche that had attached to stolen souls. On one hand, the lost souls and conspiring inner gods continue to pursue Aeai as the means to attack the demon, while on the other hand, Aeai is pursued by the fallen, demons of Aeirn, intent on forcing her into their ranks. 

The child's parents ally themselves with Aeai, helping to keep her adversaries from discovering her pregnancy or the true nature of her child. One way to discourage the cabal's interest in Aeai was to convince them that she was indeed a fallen angel. Unfortunately, this only encouraged the fallen to pursue the trio in order to recruit them into their web pacts and conspiracies. 

The cabal eventually decides to test the theory of Aeai's fall, moving against her to see if she retains a tie to the demon that can be used to provoke it into asserting itself. When this plot succeeds in arousing the demon, it tears into the conspiritors and eventually confronts the child. Aeai summons the parents to the child's aid, but their intervention has an unintended consequence. 

The demon's fixation on the child gave the survivors of its rampage a chance to slay it. The slayers saw it as an opportunity to drive the demon into a weaker vessel, unaware that the demon had willingly possessed the child. When they struck, they forced Aeai to dive into the child after the demon. The demon, seeing Aeai as no threat, focused on devouring the child's psyche. 

Aeai drew on the child's soul to oppose the demon, eclipsing the demon while the demon eclipsed the child. The parents entered limbo to protect the child there. Each parent provided the child a different focus; torn on either side between the parents and cut through the middle by the angel and demon, the child's psyche split. 

The child was divided into male and female aspects and this had the unexpected benefit of shattering the demon's mind. Aeai remained in possession of the child's body while the boy and girl are led by their parents across the threshold. The traumatic ordeal leaves each child with shattered memories and peices of the shattered demon. 

Aeai warn the parents that reuniting the two halves of the child would restore the demon, but in their divided state the boy and girl might assimilate the demon instead. They needed time to mature and become self-possessed before they could be reunited. The parents take on the roles of mother and father, taking the girl and boy respectively and going separate ways. 

