When it hits, it hits hard. I thought that transitioning was my only hope of survival, and when my world crumbled and I was no longer able to function, let alone continue with transition, I assumed that was it. The end. 

I sold or threw away almost everything I owned, because I had no way to hold on to any of it. I watched my friends all move away and packed one bag and prepared to live on the street. Or, rather, see how long it took before I ended up dead in a ditch. Faced with such grim prospects, I decided to get out my knife and get rid of that one little thing I had no use for...

I have to say this, real pain is a wonderful distraction from psychic agony. One cut. A handfull of stitches. The most embarassing moments ever spent in an ambulance or hospital. If I'd had a sharper knife, I doubt I'd still be around today--I really was not thinking at the time. I got pushed to the edge and said, "Fuck it! Might as well jump!" 

In order to back away from the edge, I had to accept the one option I hated most. I had to turn to my family for help... I had to resume the role of the wayward son, accepting the fact that I might never recover enough to transition. The last time I had confronted that, was the first time I had seriously contemplated suicide. When I first read the Standards of Care, I became so desperately hopeless that I could no longer endure it. I snapped and the most hateful, bitter, resentful anger poured through me. I had never seriously been able to contemplate suicide before because I could never bring myself to hurt anyone, myself included. When I lost it that day, however, I wanted to lash out at the world and at my family in particular for failing me in a way I could not even articulate. 

I was tempted. I had never been so angry or desperate in my life. I decided to do it, and just as I was about to pull the trigger, I put the gun down, walked out of my room and handed it to my roommate and told him I never wanted to see it again. 

In that last moment, that "Well, this is my last thought" moment, I finally understood that it was all real. I could not possible hurt so much if I was not real, if what I had always thought and felt about myself had not always been true. For the first time in my life, I had not been experiencing self-doubt, and in that instant of clarity I saw my salvation. 

The problem had not been that I had been born male. The problem had always been that I allowed that irrelevant fact prevent me from being true to myself. I allowed the thoughts and actions of everyone around me scare me out of being myself. It still hurts being in the wrong body. It always seems like its killing me. But I can always close my eyes and feel myself, my true self and my true form. People may still see "him" but I know that "he" was created out of me. I don't have to live a lie. I don't have to hide.  I may not have the power to change my life, to make things right, but I don't have to give anyone else the power to define me. 

Whether there is a lesson in all that, or a moral... I don't know. It seems to me that you might just be waking up to things. I could have gotten my parents to listen to me as kid, if I had thought for a moment I could become a girl in truth. At nine I decided that SRS was not enough, so I kept looking for a miracle instead and kept my silence. There are days I regret that. SRS would be better than nothing, right? Especially if I'd started before puberty with antiandrogens and hormones...

It doesn't matter. This is about who you are. What you are doesn't really matter. It's temporary at best. I've spent my whole life flipping back and forth between male and female, often not knowing for sure which I was supposed to be. In the end, I can only be me. When I accept that, when I allow it to fill me... oddly enough, it does. 

I hope that's something you can discover too.