Our lives seem to have no more substance than smoke. We live without really living, and die without ever knowing how to live. Once something has been established there is no way to deny it or escape it without being able to change what has been established. 

Any intelligent individual, given control of his life and the means to act on his decisions, will look for ways to improve himself or his situation in a way that does not cost him the lessons and gifts that life has given him. By virtue of man's ability to think of and for himself, man can no longer be like smoke in the dance of life—always changing, never aware of himself or his role in the greater scheme of life. 

Man wants to, has to, understand himself and his place in the world. Man can see things and understand things. When he is being his best, he can make things happen that are meaningful and constructive, rather than random and transient. Nature uses everything to paint a picture without ever finding any particular appreciation for the details and specific instances of its art, while man feels the impact of life and nature. 

Man is moved to an awareness of beauty and significance that drives him to explore more of life and its mystery than animals or plants—who are the living reflections of nature and who play their parts without ever knowing what their parts mean. Or perhaps they do. The thing is, to them death and its inevitable price means nothing to them for they are made to give up themselves to the whole of life. Even though what they give up is the most precious thing in life—the living experience of life. All life save for intelligent life is simply there, like smoke, drifting through the picture of life always represented but inevitably dispersing on the winds of time and soon ceasing to have even the substance of smoke. 

It would seem that there is little difference between our transience and that of nature's children. Indeed there might as well not be, for though we have this power to recognize and understand ourselves and the world we live in, we lose life before ever finding a way to reach the heritage of our awareness. There is no reason to think we are unique in our possession of self and the loss of it. But, our awareness of it is keen enough that we can see that we have everything to gain and everything to lose in being alive. 




The world as a whole might not be ready for the institution of psionics as the scientific complement of physics, but individuals always have been. The existence of every individual is seated in the experience of a psychic phenomenon. 

Paradoxes and theoretical absolutes have plagued progress on the way towards a formal recognition of a trinity of media—space, time and mind. Each of these qualities confronts us as an absolute. Stripped down to the basics, each one is a medium we cannot exist without and which we cannot experience independent of the others. 

Whatever space, time and mind truly represent, we exist at an intersection of all three. All that we can encounter within them amounts to information, an ocean of detail possessing structural characteristics that interactively "create" the universe. As scientists grow closer to understanding why the world functions as it had been observed to, psionics can become a vehicle for new inspiration. 

Psionic ability holds a unique promise, potential that can pave the way for our advance into space, particularly as a resource for the development of new technology—much the way each new understanding about our selves has inspired technology to advance. With a true understanding of the mind, science can evolve to embrace the full scope of human imagination.

The existence of a soul is absolute, at once all and nothing. The qualities of a soul are both infinite and eternal. A soul is not a question, nor is a soul an answer. A soul is a statement. A soul is an expression, a unique, individual creation. 

A soul defines itself. In adopting a design, a soul is often faced with a limitation that arguably compromises or violates its integrity. If, within a given archetype, a design employs mutually exclusive characteristics, a soul, which by its intrinsic nature encompasses the gamut of mutually exclusive characteristics, can be stifled by the emphasis of its adopted design. Confounded by an exclusive emphasis, a soul is often compelled to find alternate forms of expression. 

Even before a soul embraces the awareness of other souls, the darkness of a soul embraces the light of other souls, filling the emptiness of its existence with the certainty of others, both as a foundation for its own reality, and a medium for the realization of its self. A soul dreams its dreams, innocent of consequence, immune to concern, often unaware of those who chance to share its dream. But already it is evolving. 

A mind exists at a crucial threshold, as a premier interface between the individual and the innumerable. Where every soul is a thing of innate perfection, each mind is a unique work of art. A mind is a soul's way of representing itself. A mind is also a soul's way of influencing itself. The power of a mind is derived of itself, in the expression of its soul. 

A soul's attention expands to encompass a growing understanding of its condition, and its will develops as it struggles to grasp the essence of its awareness. As the soul evolves, it creates. Constantly grasping existence anew and refining its understanding, recreating its universe. The power of its dreaming creating dreams. And in its dreams, it begins to experience moments of clarity. The questions and answers that it eternally weaves suddenly resolve and it awakens to a world. 

The mind is the key to existence; the function of mind is to make dreams into reality. The ambition or promise of mind is to realize the ideal. In the world, the mind is the seat of the soul. The mind is so central to existence that people are often blind to it, though nothing within it is ever hidden from the soul. 

If the soul could be said to be the light of our awareness, then the mind is the lens through which that light is focused. A lens shaped by the soul, by experience, and intimately personal, yet exposed to everything. A possession of itself, a mind is also an object, a thing that can be grasped, manipulated, probed, and even possessed by, or shared, with another. 

No intimacy can compare to what the mind can invite, and it is this that makes the awakening of a mind's potential particularly difficult and dangerous. In order for the mind to influence reality, it must open itself, and become vulnerable. Only a strong, stable, healthy mind can bear to be so naked to reality. Only an open mind can touch naked reality.

One soul can give birth to all souls, for that which can conceive of itself, can conceive of others, and in conceiving of others, can conceive of others that can conceive of themselves, and those that can conceive of themselves and each other can conceive of that which can conceive of itself. That one soul, dreaming of many, makes an invitation. The souls, dreaming of themselves, realizing the same truth, making the same invitation, are revealed to each other. Thus souls born dreaming alone, become souls dreaming alone together. 

A relationship between the body and the spirit is easier to describe than the relationship of mind and soul. Like the soul, a mind is a possession of itself, but unlike the soul, the mind is vulnerable. In a way, mind is a soul's way of transcending itself. A soul can touch, and can be touched, only through its mind. 

What words cannot define, they can characterize, so that the truth may be recognized as it is encountered. 

The incredible notion that the very position in which we all find ourselves is not a credible subject for scientific study is ultimately unsupportable.

Initial progress would depend on a clear distinction being made between the conceptualization of dimensions and media—a distinction between abstract structure and the manifestation of structure, in terms of both form and function. 
