On the theory that David Roberson might not agree that the "thread" continues where indicated, I'm answering him here. "Thread," by the way, seems to mean "Do you get the thread of the discussion?" and is used when people are considered to be weaving conversational spells. I know it has a different computer use, but is this not its origin? "General discussion" is not a topic but a category, so I consider the title to be a topic title.

David, the modern philosophy to which I was referring is established philosophy; I don't know if you're an established philosopher or not. However, it's certainly valid to consider what you're writing to be philosophy. I like your definition of spirit as a requisite and I don't consider it to be that only in nature. Perhaps existence itself doesn't exist if it lacks the attribute of awareness, or if awareness is not one of its attributes, in which case a discussion of whether one exists or not is moot. Similarly, if existence isn't defined it might not be there, might not be anything. So perhaps it is existence that is threatened with this argument, rather than an individual being threatened by not having any place in it.

In deference to the Worx Group and its possible attitudes, I'll continue this in another posting.

By John Thiel on Saturday, March 04, 2006 - 10:18 am:

When I was in the Cult, a science fiction fandom sub-group, we were discussing existence and one particularly extreme argument was interrupted when one of the participants in it, Carl Brandon, turned out not to be a real person. He's fondly remembered for his nonexistence on the fandom net. He was removed from the roster and I was one step closer to active membership. Unfortunately for the discussion we were having, the Cult got into some major feuds and before our discussion had reached a satisfactory point, it practically ceased to exist, and not too long thereafter, it did cease to exist entirely. So I miss those discussions of existence and am glad to be able to resume them here, where it seems relevent to sf and even to Analog. You're giving me a real opportunity to express myself! (We were also discussing psionics machines in the Cult, and computers. You can see I really miss a discussion that hasn't been completed, and go looking for it where it might be found.)

Yes, humanity has a habit of trying to exclude itself from nature, and my take on that is that it is the origin of the angst that is sensed or expressed in modern philosophy. There is, obviously, a lot of activity which has the intention of destroying things, perhaps not to exclude everything, and although this is not a philosophy there are some philosophers paralleling it, Nietsche, for example. The impulse toward destruction is expressed by poet e.e. cummings, "When man determined to destroy himself", and cummings went on to express that man then took some of these modern philosophies and did some hocus pocus with them. But cummings agrees that there's a great tendency toward self-destruction found in mankind.

By John Thiel on Saturday, March 04, 2006 - 10:43 am:

The concept of the Other as introduced by Sartre may bring one to a consideration of autonomy vs. orgyism. Schopenhauer's "World as Will and Idea" has two speculative stances, both of which are autonomous, idea perhaps less than will. You seem to be saying that we project or originate what we're working with, which is autonomy, but when we accept another into our discussion it's orgiastic and no longer genuine autonomy. (I think we should mention philosophers who have discussed this matter, Descartes and Bishop Berkley were two of the originals.) So perhaps two discussers generate some spirit, then the more the merrier, but do they cause the original subject to become discursive? And when contentions are about existence, they easily diffuse into a discussion of something else. Or, by the same token, they don't. My point is the discussion itself becoming the reality that's involved. When the discussion is of existence's real nature, it may be the impulse of existence that comes around to defend itself by making the discussion a discursive one.

The factor of individuality is a large one in the consideration of the entirety of the argument. If an individual doesn't consider himself to exist, he won't consider anything else to exist, and any consideration of him will be considering non-existence. Nihilism can spread.

When Credence Clearwater sings "Take me back down to Coo Waw Slow Yaw", he is expressing a nihilistic urge. Coo Waw Slow Yaw is a state of non-existence that is comfortable for him. He is speaking to his Muse in the song. (An extended Smiley.)