
Buddha looked at the world and saw part of the truth: the nature of human desire and its capacity to cause suffering in the world. But, like pain, fear, anger, hatred and suffering, desire is also an essential part of us. Like the rest, desire can be out of balance and rule us. 

Buddhism has provided millions of people with the discipline to limit desire and allow compassion to guide them. The cost, however, is one that should be considered, for in the absence of desire, all desire, a person surrenders his or her soul. If it were a matter of simply relinquishing a concept, that would not be anything to worry about. On the other hand, it has to be asked if a soul is something that can be lost, stolen, sold or surrendered, when you consider that you are your soul. No soul would mean no you. No souls would mean no people and no people means that none of this really matters. That is not what the lesson of suffering teaches. Suffering has no point or purpose or even relevance if it is not endured; suffering allows us to know the truth of our selves, the truth of our existence. Suffering does not just make us better people, it is the very proof of our existence.

The question is, how can a person achieve peace and happiness knowing that other people are suffering? This is the nature of true compassion, and the root of love. When one feels true compassion or love, the well-being of others or at least one other comes before one's own happiness. 


original suffering and evil

Jolene, I meant to say this earlier, but time has been tight this week. I really appreciated the fact that you looked for and presented other information about Buddha's life. This legend about the prediction of Siddhartha's destiny provides an explanation for why his father tried to protect his son from the harshness of reality, hoping to discourage him from pursuing an ascetic life, presumably in the belief that it was better to be a king than a sannyasin. There are always those who believe that there is no higher truth and that wealth, status, achievement and comfort are the best that can be hoped for in life, and that choosing to seek for more, for some spiritual truth, is a path that can only bring suffering. In his own way, Siddhartha's father was simply trying to spare his son from needless suffering. The question that seems to have occurred to Buddha is, how can a man achieve peace and happiness knowing that others are suffering? This is the nature of true compassion, and the root of love. When one feels true compassion or love, the well-being of others or at least one other comes before one's own happiness. Life is hard, even when it is without strife or evil, there is a great deal of suffering inherent in life. That suffering is only compounded by the actions and the consequences of actions that are motivated by greed, hatred, spite, lust, jealousy, envy, pride, gluttony, wrath... and each of those terrible impulses are born from an imbalance, a hollowness in people that is difficult to explain or remedy. There is a line in "The Matrix" when Morpheus confronts Neo about a wrongness in the world, like "a splinter in your mind" and while it was caused by an instinctive apprehension about the artificial reality he was trapped in, it is similar to a feeling many people have about our own reality. There is a wrongness in the world, evident in the mystery of life and the inevitability of death or in the things that we call evil. There is something we all sense is missing, some question not asked or some answer that cannot be found. When asked why there is suffering in the world, even the wisest of people are hesitant to tell the truth. Why do we have pain, fear, anger, hatred and suffering? 

The real question is, how could we survive without them? Pain exists to warn us of danger and damage to our bodies, spirits, minds and even our souls. Fear warns us about things in our world that we must not take for granted and ignore. Anger drives us to fight against that which would harm us, it gives us the strength to attack--without which we are naturally too peaceful to do! Hatred, though it is such a dark emotion, and one that often takes control of us and blinds us, is designed to drive us to destroy that which is threatening to us. Suffering, which can be born of all these dark emotions, is the price we pay for allowing any of them to continue beyond their purpose. We are not meant to live constantly in any of these states, and these states are as vital to us as teeth and claws are to a wolf or lion. They are not evil in themselves. They are only evil in their abuse. They are the natural defenses and weapons we were created with, and we are ignorant in their use because they are such a natural part of ourselves. We can only tame them, control them, harness them, by taming, controlling and harnessing ourselves. Buddha looked at the world and saw part of the truth, the nature of human desire and its capacity to cause suffering in the world. But, like pain, fear, anger, hatred and suffering, desire is also an essential part of us. Like the rest, desire can be out of balance and rule us. Buddhism has provided millions of people with the discipline to limit desire and allow compassion to guide them. The cost, however, is one that should be considered, for in the absence of desire, all desire, a person surrenders his or her soul. If it were a matter of simply relinquishing a concept, that would not be anything to worry about. On the other hand, it has to be asked if a soul is something that can be lost, stolen, sold or surrendered, when you consider that you are your soul. No soul would mean no you. No souls would mean no people and no people means that none of this really matters. That is not what the lesson of suffering teaches. Suffering has no point or purpose or even relevance if it is not endured; suffering allows us to know the truth of our selves, the truth of our existence. Suffering does not just make us better people, it is the very proof of our existence. 

 
edited

Life is hard, even when it is without strife or evil, there is a great deal of suffering inherent in life. That suffering is only compounded by the actions and the consequences of actions that are motivated by greed, hatred, spite, lust, jealousy, envy, pride, gluttony, wrath... and each of those terrible impulses are born from an imbalance, a hollowness in people that is difficult to explain or remedy. When asked why there is suffering in the world, even the wisest of people are hesitant to tell the truth. 

Why do we have pain, fear, anger, hatred and suffering? 

The real question is, how could we survive without them? Pain exists to warn us of danger and damage to our bodies, spirits, minds and even our souls. Fear warns us about things in our world that we must not take for granted and ignore. Anger drives us to fight against that which would harm us; it gives us the strength to attack--without which we are naturally too peaceful to do! Hatred, though it is such a dark emotion, and one that often takes control of us and blinds us, is designed to drive us to destroy that which is threatening to us. Suffering, which can be born of all these dark emotions, is the price we pay for allowing any of them to continue beyond their purpose. 

We are not meant to live constantly in any of these states, and yet these states are as vital to us as teeth and claws are to a wolf or lion. They are not evil in themselves. They are only evil in their abuse. They are the natural defenses and weapons we were created with, and we are ignorant in their use because they are such a natural part of ourselves. We can only tame them, control them; harness them, by taming, controlling and harnessing ourselves. Buddha looked at the world and saw part of the truth, the nature of human desire and its capacity to cause suffering in the world. But, like pain, fear, anger, hatred and suffering, desire is also an essential part of us. Like the rest, desire can be out of balance and rule us. 
Buddhism has provided millions of people with the discipline to limit desire and allow compassion to guide them. The cost, however, is one that should be considered, for in the absence of desire, all desire, a person surrenders his or her soul. If it were a matter of simply relinquishing a concept, that would not be anything to worry about. On the other hand, it has to be asked if a soul is something that can be lost, stolen, sold or surrendered, when you consider that you are your soul. No soul would mean no you. No souls would mean no people and no people means that none of this really matters. That is not what the lesson of suffering teaches. Suffering has no point or purpose or even relevance if it is not endured; suffering allows us to know the truth of our selves, the truth of our existence. Suffering does not just make us better people, it is the very proof of our existence. 

 




