My name is Andrea. I am almost 39, M2F transgendered, and it's killing me. 

I find myself a little on edge tonight. I would have transitioned in the 80's if I had believed anyone would have helped me. I have spent the last ten years recovering from the breakdown that resulted from my initial attempt to transition in the late 90's, and tonight I got blindsided by the airing of three transgender programs on Discovery. One, Transgender MD, prompted me to fire up the computer and google my way to this forum. 

I am severely transgendered, to the point where the pretense of being a man drives me regularly over the edge into a complete nervous breakdown or dangerous flirtation with self mutilation, and, well, that has never been a good thing. I have spent my life destroying myself to appear normal enough to get through the day. I pay for it most nights. Most of all, I pay for it by achieving nothing for all my effort. I've literally turned myself inside out to make less than I need to survive, almost every day of my adult life. I've gone so far beyond the point where I could have killed myself... that was the day I first read the standards of care. 

It broke me but I tried to follow them. By the time I had asked for help, I was too damaged to do what was required to get it. I still don't understand how I can be too strong to kill myself but too fragile to function on my own. I tried to do better. I sacrificed transition hoping to strengthen my foundation, slowly, painfully, pulling my life more together, living on my own, supporting myself (barely!) while acquiring an Associate's Degree in Business and pursuing a Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology for Visual Communications. Unfortunately, my income has been so limited I have not been able to afford therapy, let alone any of the other expenses of transitioning. I've been at a stand still. Tonight, I found myself forced to confront the fact that I will not survive much more of this. 

I am currently in Anchorage, AK, lured up by a job and the possibility of mutual support (a transgendered person I had become close to online) only to have the job opportunity vanish into thin air and, well, somehow, the support evaporated as well. She is caught up in a child custody conflict and concerned about what would happen if we shared an apartment (with or without transitioning). I was able to find a job and get an apartment, then began temping at higher paying jobs, but because of the instability I've been through, chronically, my resume is no asset for finding real jobs. I may have a shot at a job by way of a temp assignment--I'm a solid and talented worker when my brain is not in the process of imploding--but on the off chance that falls through, the only hope I have is that I get another temp assignment right away. 

If not. Well...

Things are looking pretty scary right now. But, that's kind of the story of my life! Trying to transition in 1998-1999 left me homeless and with stitches in something I never should have had in the first place! I have to laugh, though. I kind of have to sigh, too. It took a long time to learn how to say these horrible things so openly and so simply. I used to kill myself trying to make people like me and to make them believe I was happy, healthy and normal. Now, I look at the tragic joke of my life and laugh. I cry a little and then I take a deep breath and keep moving forward because I am not dead yet. I'm scared, alone, afraid I will never escape from the trap I am in, and have no idea what to do if I ever do; but I am not dead yet. 

I'm barely surviving... and that's just not good enough. As strong as I am, this condition is STILL tearing me apart. It's more than I can handle, and much, much more than my friends and family could handle. Even the ones who would still welcome me on the other side find the reality of where I am now inconceivable. 

If only it was....

Anyway, I thought I should do a little screaming before I went over the edge.  


I've only been on here for a couple of days, so this might seem to be coming a bit late, but I feel like I might be able to give you a little insight on top of the responses you have already gotten. 

The first thing I want to say is that many of us (transgendered people) find it very hard to live for ourselves. In most ways, we are like anyone else; we want to be a part of the world around us and be seen and accepted for who we are. Unfortunately, appearance plays a huge part in how people see us, no matter who we are, and that affects the way people relate to us. No one is entirely what they appear to be, and the difference between the person we are inside and the person we appear to be can cause problems for just about anyone. No one gets to choose what they look like, and the person you really are is something you have to discover for yourself. You look at what feels right, natural and normal for you to be and to do, and you identify yourself accordingly. Gender is part of that identity, it is based more on who you are as a person than what you are as an organism. If you've ever looked at your picture or reflection, or the things you've said or done, and felt that it was not right, or that it was not quite you, you've felt a little of what a transgendered person feels every moment of his or her life. A conflict between who you are, your gender, and what you are, your sex, is something you can never really escape from. 

The amazing thing about people is that they can choose how to think and act, and control how they react to their feelings, so when a transgendered person--a girl in a boy's body, for example--is growing up, she starts out thinking and acting in a manner characteristic of most girls. This starts even before she knows what the difference between male and female really is. She has no idea why people tell her to stop doing what comes naturally and act "like a boy" but to make people happy, she does what she is told, even though it is uncomfortable or feels outright wrong to her. No matter how good she gets at being a boy, that feeling of wrongness never goes away, because of course she is acting, not being. I can tell you, from experience, that you can go a long time not being yourself, if there are people you care about that expect this from you. The problem is, you cannot live your entire life trying to be something you are not. It poisons you, it tears you apart, and while you tell yourself to be strong and to "be a man" about it, you are doing more damage to yourself every day. 

The consequences are worse the more successful you are in life as a man, because it all comes at the cost of denying who you really are as a person. You will be living and experiencing everything as a man, and in virtually every way, you will be as much as if not more of a man than any man around you. In a lot of ways, that is because the measure of a man is often based on what he does, not who he is. I think that's a flaw of our whole species, that we tend to value men and women for what they are, what they do, more than for who they are. I think that most of societies' problems can be blamed on the fact that we only value a few people in our lives for who they are. That is what we call love. Unfortunately, our love for people can be tied up with how we perceive them as people. How you see someone plays a huge part in how you hold them in your heart and mind, and because our physical perceptions form the basis of our memories a person's physical appearance plays a huge part in how we see them. 

I always knew I was a girl, but because my body was male and because I was always seen as a boy, the love my family had for me could never be for me. Because of him, they never knew me. I had to pretend to be something I was not in order for them to love me, and I did it, no matter how much it hurt, because I loved them. Unfortunately, the longer I went on denying myself, the harder it became to live for myself. I had no hopes or dreams. I had to give up everything I wanted to be and most of the things I wanted to do to be able to play the part I was trapped in. When I went off to college, and no longer had my family to perform for, I literally fell apart. I did not know how to live. I wanted to just be me, but my body would not let me. All I had to do was relax, and I would slip back to thinking, feeling and acting like a girl, but exhibiting that behavior in a man's body only made me more conscious of how wrong my body was for me. 

The older I get, the more I feel like I will grow old and die without ever having lived. I gave up so much out of love for my family, but when my siblings all moved on, making new lives and starting families of their own, and when my mom got cancer and died, I realized that I was lost without them. I did not have an intimate place in their lives, and I had no life of my own. I spent my whole adult life unable to stay on my feet because the life I had was an act, a lie that no longer served a purpose. I came out to my family, and they asked me not to change myself, and yet, they all want me to pull myself together and have a happy and successful life. In the end, the cost of their love became impossible. I would have gone on doing this for them, but when they asked me to do it for me they could not understand that what they were asking for would destroy me. 

All I ever wanted from my family was to be loved for who I was, no matter what I happened to be. When you father told you about his gender issues, he was asking you for the same thing. 



I would describe the times when I am "okay" with being male as the times when I am coping well. I never had a problem with being male in the moment, but I cannot bear to be male in every moment. I built my whole male identity around doing, starting with the fact that I presented as male to make people I cared about happy (or to keep them from worrying about me, or worse, thinking I was damaged goods). There are some things I can do where it does not matter what I am, and there are things I do because they have to be done no matter how I feel about it. 

There are a lot of things that can blind side me and turn me into a complete, paralyzed wreck. Being around girls can turn me upside down, it only takes a moment to see myself in a girl's shoes (so to speak) and as soon as I do, I am hit with the reminder of all the things I am denied because I am not female. At other times, being seen as a man by someone, anyone really, can tear me apart, because in that same instant I see myself through their eyes and what I see is not me. The same thing happens when I see my reflection or a photo. It does not matter much where I am or what I am doing, the feeling of not being me hits like a splash of ice water and suddenly I am fighting to assert my own identity in a situation where I really cannot assert myself. 

There was a time when I thought of myself as an invisible girl with an autistic brother. I was always me, but no one ever noticed I existed, and I spent all my time protecting and taking care of my brother, keeping the world from noticing that he was not all there. Eventually, I realized he was the one who did not exist and trying to make it seem like he did was destroying me. In spite of that severe dissociation, the realization allowed me to see that the man I pretended to be for so long had always been a part of me, and in a lot of ways, I make a really great guy. I can be him for hours, days, even weeks if I have to, but the moment I stop acting, I am just me, lost, alone and unknown. 

Being him gives me something to do to distract myself from the fact that nothing I can do can make up for what I've been through or for what I've been denied. But, I can only be him when I have the strength to endure reality. I'll be honest, it is much easier to pretend to be him, and be seen as a really great guy, than to try to be myself through him and be seen as a tragic, twisted and confused freak. I spent too much time learning how to read people, particularly men, to not understand instantly how people see me. I say that only to point out that I would find it easier to stay male, be the man I appear to be, and be thankful for the life I've got. It is easy to tell myself I am okay with this, that I've grown up and I am better off being the man I spent a life time learning how to be than I would be trying to become a woman who missed out on all the experiences she needed from life. 

It sounds logical, but to be that man, I have to cease to be myself. It's not hard. It's like holding my breath... um... yeah, not really a good, long term solution. Why does the girl in you keep coming back? Well, she's telling you to "Breathe, Idiot! Breathe!" You can be anything you want to be, anything you can find in yourself, as long as you don't deny who you really are. 


[quote author=Aelita Lynn link=topic=59988.msg383962#msg383962 date=1242415772]
It's really been wearing on me lately, that I really seem alone when it comes to religion. I know there are other people out there, but they don't show themselves. I feel like I'm only in the company of dead people. Well, on some points anyway. I don't think there is anybody whose beliefs are really quite that close to mine (but I hope so). It's just so lonely, and I'm always on the defensive as there as I don't have anyone to help stand my ground. I'm not sure what my point was with all of this. I guess I just wanted to say it.
[/quote]

Would you care to expand on your feelings? In what way are you alone when it comes to religion? Philosophically? Theologically? Socially? You mention that you feel your beliefs are different; are you able (or comfortable) expressing the nature of your beliefs? I am curious, because, well, the first person I discussed my need to be female with was a Christian Faith Healer (I was sincerely curious about the possibility of a miraculous transformation) and was told that my feelings were the result of demonic or satanic influence and that my soul would be damned if I did not deny my feelings and refrain from even contemplating being anything other than what God made me. There are only two ways I can think of for a male to truly be transformed into a female (I don't include science or technology that one day might work, on the grounds that it doesn't exist yet) and that would be a miracle or magic (the existence of which has not been proven one way or the other) which I have to believe in as a consequence of believing in God. I've gotten a lot of weird reactions, even from other transpeople, for stating this belief. I have a lot of experience in having a "unique" perspective when it comes to religion, philosophy and even science. Personally, I get the impression that the purpose of religion is to keep people from asking the really hard questions by requiring them to accept "on faith" answers that are not answers at all. 

Being trans, we have the advantage of being forced to learn that we cannot take "who we are" for granted. We all know our lives would be much better if we could be what we appeared to be, but no matter how hard we try to conform to our birth sex, our bodies, we are unable to escape from the fact that our true gender, a key part of our identity, who we are, the proper expression of our souls, is the opposite--or something else entirely! The very fact that this conflict exists, and is so agonizing, ought to be proof enough (however subjective) of the existence of our souls. The belief we all have, that who we are matters more than what we are, is a powerful argument that there is indeed more to us than form and substance we possess in our short lives. Since we all go through a great deal of this alone, in our own minds, it is not surprising that we would tend to see things very differently from people who do take themselves for granted (and I don't mean that in a negative way). 



Ask all the questions you want, all the questions you can, and don't let them corner you! It takes a lot of questions to come up with the right answer for "Who are you?" No one can tell you. You have to figure it out for yourself. Honestly, not even you will be satisfied with the answer you come up with until you are sure you've asked all the right questions. 

I'll give you a hint, though. The right answer is the one you can live with, even if it costs you everything else. 

Hello, Katy! 

Information is a good thing to have. There is a lot of wiggle room when it comes to gender, and it can be very difficult for someone who has questions about it to ask (or explore) them. It can be extremely difficult for them to ask for or accept help. My mother came right out and asked me if I wanted to be a girl when I was six, and I could not admit that I did because I knew it would not be safe to. If there are people in his life who he feels would not understand and accept hearing that he wanted to be a girl or felt like he was supposed to be a girl, it will be difficult to get him to open up. 

So, the first thing to ask is, would it be safe for him to open up? 

Hello Chaser, 

It is entirely possible to be a "really feminine man in a woman's body" as you put it. Gender, identity and sexuality are more varied than most people realize, and they can combine in some very unique ways. Gender has more to do with who you are, while sexuality or sexual orientation has more to do with who you are attracted to. You really can be extremely feminine, identify as male and physically be female, and as long as you are comfortable with things that way, you are as normal as you need to be. If those different parts are in conflict because one part does not seem to fit, and you have to act in a manner that does not feel natural in order to fit in, then you might need help with gender and sexuality issues. 

To finish answering your first question, transwomen can be straight, bi, lesbian or other; the unique thing about transpeople is that they may start out with one orientation but change orientation as a consequence of transitioning. It is tends to come as a surprise. 


Ironic. I gave this thread a read thinking it might touch upon the situation here in Anchorage, AK where the public bathroom debate is being used to attack equal rights and protection legislation. It is the ease with which people allow themselves to be frightened beyond reason and manipulated that amazes me. There might be a legitimate cause for concern for the safety of ALL people affected by this topic, and a legitimate issue about social courtesy and manners, but no legitimate issue can be resolved in the face of panic and confusion, especially when it they are promoted by individuals for personal gain or self-interest. Society must serve the needs of all of us or else it will serve the needs of none of us. I won't blame this controversy on religious prejudice, because that's a misnomer for simple ignorance. In some cases, I'd say willful ignorance, or even stupidity. 

When fear is used to dictate policy, the motive is always power. The real purpose of fear is to focus your attention on potential danger, to identify what the danger is, and to determine whether you need to stand and fight or run away. We are limited to those two options, when acting in fear, because when one is the wrong option, the other is the only possible course of action. The problems raised in this issue cannot be resolved by fighting or running away, because they are not real, immediate threats. The questions raised in this issue can only be resolved by mature, rational, responsible thought. 
