Hello, Adam!

You'll have to pardon me, I was trying to be funny with that remark, and did not consider how it might read in context with the rest. I made a poor transition from a working concept of existence, the requisite qualities for existence, to a common example of something that we presume embodies those qualities. On occasion, I'm prone to stream of consciousness writing. The significant point in that opening was "the best definition of a thing is the thing itself". That applies to gods and men and motes of dust. On the other hand, there is no better justification for existence than there is for God. Without consultation or explanation, we exist, and only by examining our existence can we hope to understand how and why. It's all well to look at existence and say, "Here is God, proven in all things" but that accomplishes precisely nothing in terms of enlightenment or edification. We've just placed the burden for thinking and acting upon someone or something that, quite clearly, did not step forward and volunteer for that responsability. Positing the existence and significance of God is simply a way of abdicating responsability. I am open minded enough to keep the door open say, "Hey, if you're out there, I just want you to know I'm cool with that. I hope you decide to join the party here at some point..." It's not my business to say whether God exists any more than it's my job to say whether Hakim Abdul Isareallyjamminman exists.
 
\blue{Existence isn't something that can be said to exist - it's a precondition of things existing, but it is not a thing itself.} 

Existence can not exist. What a radical idea! Talk about mind boggling in its implications! Rather than try to grok that, I think I'll just intuit the meaning you probably intended and say, you have a point. The concept of existence is not existence, and thus the phrasing I used seems objectionable. I'll meet you half way and say it does seem odd to speak of existence as an idea that can assert itself and encompass its own existence. Existence is a phenomenon and a phenomenon is a thing and the discussion and examination of a phenomenon is founded on the observation of the manifestation of a phenomenon, which argues that existence is something that can be said to exist. Existence is not a precondition, but the actual condition of things existing. The qualities I named earlier could be considered preconditions of existence, except, they have to exist in order to contribute to existence. How is that for a skull thumper?