I was hoping to provoke a few thoughts...

There will be a point in my life when I will cull my various journals and letters and collect my thoughts and observations for publication, but as of yet I am unpublished. Perhaps that time is coming sooner than I anticipated, if this is the sort of reaction my thoughts provoke.

Your question is not unexpected, but let me assure you that I sound occult more out of a sense of irrepressable drama and style than because I pretend to any special knowledge. When I say we would have to embrace that ability again, I am not speaking in the sense of human generations or ages, but rather of normal human development and personal experience. 

I mean, of course, that this "ability" evolved hand in hand with sentience. And, in consideration of your faith (and at some time I can discuss what I call the embracing faith, if you are interested)I am not speaking solely of Classical Human Evolution as opposed to Creation, but of the process through which a brain acquires a mind, as a mind acheives individuality, through individuality self-possession and thus a soul. Those faiths that practice prayer already possess a strong, unstated belief in telepathy. The idea that our thoughts and emotions are broadcast into the universe is not uncommon, nor is the belief that our minds are influenced by subtle impulses from divine and abominable influences. We have those beliefs in virtually all cultures because they aptly describe things we all experience. There are many instances where "great minds think alike" and that fits the definition of telepathy to some degree, but more significant are those moments of wordless communication, shared awareness. 

The basics of telepathy can be grasped in your basic high school physics resonance theory. As I said before, we are the only things capible of perceiving thoughts, and this occurs in our own minds... and if you believe that every thought you perceive is your own, you are practicing a common form of self deception. The level of background noise in the average mind is simply too much mental activity for any single brain to account for. They are echoes. Perhaps I am speaking with more authority than I ought, having yet to establish myself, but I speak from the advantage of having studied this phenomenon for easily twenty years or more. 

But returning to your question, "again"... well, there are two sides to that. One is the process in every individual's life when we errect walls of perception and interpretation to protect our individuality and preserve our own identities. Occasionally something slips through a crack in those walls and we experience, as adults, "uncharistic" thoughts or moments of rapport. The other is the process of civilization, the evolution of cultures and philosophies. As human beings have become more "sophisticated" and turned away from spiritual life to obsess over material existence, the tendancy to embrace and explore those aspects of the psyche that operate invisibly and intangibly diminished. We convinced ourselves, as a people, that direct communication, mind to mind, was impossible because there was no medium, no mechanism, involved. Well, today we know that there are invisible mediums and mechanisms capible of such transmission, but the notion that telepathy is impossible had already make it's impression on the collective psyche. So, in that sense, we must reclaim that ability before we can progress in our understanding of the mind, to a point where we jump from radio transmission to mind/machine transmission. 

Forgive me if that reads a bit awkwardly. As you might imagine, one of the obstacles to my pursuit of publication is a desire to avoid being perceived as a crank, kook or con artist. There is something in all of us that aspires for revelation, that hungers for the manifestation of a great spiritual truth. The Holographic Model of nature/reality is still hovering on the brink of plausability, last I checked, primarily because many of the theory's adherents point out such spiritual ramifications as life after death. I think that the impetus to develop a machine interface with the mind is in part an institutional desire to use the machine to bring the mind itself into a respectable position for science... a point where it can be weighed and measured. 

I'd be interested in hearing how that dinner goes. Throw me a link to that Philosophy SIG, if you can, and I'll give it a look too. 

A couple of very aggressive responses. Which is fine, I all but invited it and that is the way some people will always respond to philosphic speculation. In turn, that is an invitation to address the topic of predisposition. Why is it that some people are aggressively skeptical, unable and unwilling to even consider an idea except in the very strict and limited scope of scientific method? This person who does not even identify himself in his (or her) post, is one of those people for whom the mind itself can not exist because it cannot be described and explained scientifically but who cannot deny that the mind exists because the subjective and circumstantial evidence of the mind cannot be ignored. 

I set out to refine and clarify a set of concepts pertaining to psionics and psychic ability in reference to the feasability of reproducing or creating the effects or functions represented by such things as telepathy, telekinesis, precognition, et al, in a machine. I speculated that some qualities are properly defined as psychic in nature, such as awareness and will, and posited that those qualities would have to be reproduced mechanically as a prerequisite for machine psionics, which in fact is the topic of this thread. 

In response to a private inquiry into a fine point of speculation, I even pointed out that this is a subject that a person can be branded as a charlatan for discussing, and almost without hesitation, someone attacked my credibility. It is almost amusing, actually. 

I would love to go into speculation on how telepathy worked, my unnamed antagonist, but as there is no body of work on how thought works, what would be the basis of our discussion? 

Do not presume that because a person is willing to speculate and capible of doing so without predisposition or artificial restraint, that he or she is irrational or incredible. Original thought depends on the ability to challenge assumptions, to posit how a thing might work even when there is yet to be a test formulated to challenge that speculation. Never assault open mindedness with small mindedness. 

\i{Because discussing something as if it exists is as pointless as discussing the number of angels that can fit onto the head of a pin.}

I, sir, am a writer and an artist. You do the world and yourself no favors by asserting that discussing something as if it exists is pointless when in fact a tremendous amount of human endeavor is devoted to the creation, reading, viewing, interpretation, criticism and general discussion of pure fiction and fancy. As this is a forum for the readers of science fiction as well as fact, you are participating in the very thing you decry. I think you will find a great many people willing to argue with you on that point. 

\i{The neat thing about the "strict and limited scope of the scientific method" is that it eventually cuts through the bullshit.}

Actually, a great deal of bullshit makes its way through the filter of scientific method. Space is limited in these posts, so we'll have to take this argument off to its own thread if you insist on pursuing it with specifics. I'll say just this, I am not attacking scientific method, I am simply pointing out that it is too narrow to use as a model for all thinking. Science is, quite literally, a body of knowledge. It is merely the record of what we, as a species, currently know. That is a pittance compared to what we don't know. If we are to know more, we have to think about what we don't know. We have to develop ways of thinking about things we don't know, and we have to be as responsible about how we approach and cultivate those things as we are about devising and testing hypotheses.

\i{Sorry, it's one thing to speculate but it's quite another to presuppose things. When you start talking about things as if they exist without any proof of existence then you ARE irrational.}

It seems to me that you have chosen to take umbrage because I express myself with confidence. Speaking about psionics as if it exists was the point. In case your are not familiar with it, there is a thing called suspension of disbelief, which is employed in reading and writing fiction and in pursuing speculation. In case you missed it, this thread asks a speculative question about a speculative topic. If you feel that I was in error treating the question seriously and examining it seriously and conscienciously, then I suggest that it is you, my friend, who is being irrational. 

But, try not to take that personally.

Thank you, John. As you happen to be the person who initiated this thread, I imagine you have something of an interest in seeing the that the topic is explored with some degree of interest and integrity. For myself, I have always considered all matters concerned with the existence and nature of the soul, and that can be derived from the existence and nature of the soul, to be a matter of great import. A true scientist will always admit that science is a deliberately and explicitly limited discipline. Science concerns itself with finding answers to questions about what things are and how they work, but does not concern itself with the issue of why. That, a scientist will tell you, is a question reserved for the disciplines of philosophy and religion. In addition, the scope of science is typically limited to matters that have a useful or practical application. In matters where the subject matter lies outside of the realm where it can be subjected to controlled experiment, science also withdraws. Science is ultimately limited to presenting facts and educated speculation in the form of theories. We all know there is much more to life and the world as we know it than that. In addition, facts are not equivalent to truths. Some facts are true and some facts are not, and most are simply--to a greater or lesser degree--accurate. 

I have a great respect for science, but I have a greater concern about the truth. I suppose that makes me a philosopher, and my philosophy is grounded in trying to understand the psyche. I do not know how useful the truth of the soul might be, but I do believe it is of paramount importance, and that is the only guarantor of my integrity I can offer. If I cannot apprehend the truth of the soul or the mind, what purpose can it serve to delude myself or anyone else with fictions? 

I might be wrong in my observations or interpretations, but I will tolerate no challenges to the integrity with which I present them. 
