There are as many theories about what causes gender dysporia as there are people who have tried to understand it. 

A person can get used to just about anything. As a child, I got used to the idea that people expected me to be a boy. I did not have a clue what that meant initially, and by the time I had enough experience to comprehend it, I was in no position to argue that they had it all wrong. I can't tell you where I got the notion that I was really a girl. I was encouraged to think of myself as a boy and to look up to male role models, so there really is no explanation for my predisposition toward feminine modes of thought and expression. 

I was discouraged from behaving in ways I found most natural and compelled, often by force, to think and act in ways that were alien and peculiar to me. Of course, the whole matter was complicated by the fact that I was passed around like a hot potato, an unwanted and inconvenient consequence of a failed marriage. I came to think of my failure to think and act in the expected ways as the reason for an unending string of rejections and abandonments. I wanted, most of all, to be accepted for who I was so I did try to assert myself at first. As a result, I brought one of the most traumatic and crushing rejections of my childhood down upon myself. 

I can hardly remember now what really happened the day my preference for the company of girls over boys provoked a confrontation. Instead of joining the boys in the kiddie pool, I was playing on the jungle gym with a girl. When the boys taunted me about it, I defied them by declaring that I would rather be a girl. What I remember is that things got rough from there. Violent. I remember being dragged kicking and screaming into the pool. In the struggle, I nearly drowned, and the faces that flash through my memory include my foster father. 

To this day I don't know if he took part in "setting me straight" or if he came out to rescue me from the other boys. What I can remember is that I was too terrified after that day to admit my true feelings to anyone. Anyone who "corrected" me about my behavior was participating in the conspiracy that was revealed to me so traumatically that day. 

The next blow to my identity came a year or two later, when I was settled into my new adoptive family. I had been thrilled to discover the encyclopedia colleciton my new family had, with it's extended children's resource books. In one of them I encountered my first graphic anatomic studies and finally learned what distinguished boys from girls. I could not have been more severely wounded if I had stumbled upon a loaded gun. 

I cannot describe the sense of betrayal I felt, nor how horrifying it is to be betrayed so profoundly by one's own body. In a desperate search for some ray of hope, some possability of redemption, I began to study in earnest the subject of human biology and the science that underscored it. To put the matter bluntly, the problem was a lot more complicated than plucking the stem off the apple. 

Fortunately, my introduction to science was through honest writing that admitted that science had barely begun to explain how the world and everything in it worked. There was a great deal that was not known, and thus I had room to hope. Because science did not hold all the answers, I looked in other realms for possible solutions. I quickly determined that the sort of thing I was looking for, a physical metamorphosis, was most likely to be found in the form of magic or a miracle. 

A few years later, around the age of seven, I added science and medicine back to the list of possible solutions when I first heard of a person having a sex change. Of course, magic, miracles and sex changes were not things a small boy could really talk to people about, especially when he was absolutely terrified of being beaten or abandoned if anyone ever realized he was not normal. 

In fact, during the first seven or eight years I was with my new family, I spent most of my energy perfecting my cover as a happy, healthy supernumerary son. In the process, I managed to suppress my natural instincts so effectively that they surprised me when they spontaneously emerged. I can think back to a thousand times in my middle childhood when I, or someone else, noticed some trait or quirk in my behavior and said I really ought to have been a girl. But the fact remained, I was a boy and I needed to accept that. 

Eventually, I did. As I said, a person can get used to anything. Being a boy did not come naturally to me. It was a difficult and demanding role, but in my mind I was as dependant on my "cover" for survival as any spy. I had to believe that in order to live a lie and the only way to live a lie is to convince yourself that it is the truth. I explained away so many things, made so many excuses in order to shore up my "manhood". I told myself that everyone had questions about their identity, or "grass is greener" feelings about being the opposite sex. 

I looked at all the ways that boys and girls were alike, and pursued interests that were suitable for either sex. I was unconsciously striving for some middle ground, idealizing androgyny and preserving my own identity through a sort of "tomboyish adventurism". In truth, I was sort of the ultimate tomboy, a girl who enjoyed all the liberties of a boy. I very nearly came to accept being a boy. 

And then puberty began to loom on the horizon. I had spent my childhood skirting the edge of a nervous breakdown. In adolescence, I began to fall over the edge. I never anticipated what would happen to me if I tried to become the person everyone around expected me to be. I tried to deny the insanity of my situation, the "absurdity" of my true identity only to come within a hair of simply dropping dead. 

I know, that sounds dramatic, but it is true. I was never free to just be myself. I lived in a state of constant conflict between body and soul, unable to escape from who I was or what I appeared to be. The irony is, I can be like anyone I can imagine, but anything I can be derives from within me. I can be like a man. I can play the part almost to perfection. But, it is just acting. 

When I got to the end of the day, and shrugged off the personna I wore for everyone else's benefit, I reverted to being me. The patterns of thought and feeling, the traits and quirks that make me who I am, reasserted themselves and just when I was ready to go to bed it finally felt like I had become fully awake. In those moments of clarity I could hardly sleep, so I lay wide awake trying to make sense of what I did that day and unwilling to face the day to come. 

When morning came, I had no choice but to bite my lip, turn off my emotions, reorder my thoughts and be the person I was "supposed" to be. It was depressing and discouraging. I blamed my "girl-side" for messing with my head and tried to shut it off. The harder I tried, the harder it became to live. I would turn into an empty, emotionless shell, unable to think or act for myself. 

Being male, my body was the only essential prop needed for me to be a boy. I mean, physically, I was a normal boy and during puberty I became attracted to girls. It came as a shock, however, when I discovered that the girl of my dreams was really the girl I dreamed of being. I found this out by meeting a girl who matched my "ideal" and instead of falling in love with her I became insanely jealous of her. It literally hurt to be in her presence.

I felt a powerful physical attraction but I felt an underlying anxiety so great I had the urge to throw up just from looking at her. I envied her so powerfully it made me ill. High School and puberty are hell enough without things like this thrown in. I tried to be a man about it. I tried to get control of myself and told myself that it was ridiculous to want to be something I wasn't; a boy does not want to be a girl. 

Unfortunately, the truth was that I did. To be honest, I never felt that the problem was that I had been born male. As I saw it, the problem had always been that I allowed that irrelevant fact prevent me from being true to myself. I allowed the thoughts and actions of everyone around me scare me out of being myself. It caused me to keep a dark secret; I desperately wanted a female body because it would allow others to accept me for who I was.  

It was this secret desire that became my greatest burden. For the first half of my life, it was rare to hear anything about the lives of transgendered people because we rarely told our own stories. The stories that I heard were usually cruel jokes or tragic tales about transsexuals that cautioned me to silence, even when it made the agony of my condition utterly unbearable. I could taste the contempt and disgust I would call down on myself by declaring my true ambition. 

The idea of a sex-change was tantalizing, but sex-reassignment surgery proved to be primitive and incomplete and, as young as nine, I decided that SRS was not the solution I was looking for. Instead, I continued to look for a miracle and kept my silence. There are days I regret that. SRS with hormone therepy begun during puberty would have been better than nothing, preventing changes that would later make it nearly impossible to pass as female. 



When I first read the Standards of Care, I became so desperately hopeless that I could no longer endure it. I snapped and the most hateful, bitter, resentful anger poured through me. I had never seriously been able to contemplate suicide before because I could never bring myself to hurt anyone, myself included. When I lost it that day, however, I wanted to lash out at the world and at my family in particular for failing me in a way I could not even articulate. 

I was tempted. I had never been so angry or desperate in my life. I decided to do it, and just as I was about to pull the trigger, I put the gun down, walked out of my room and handed it to my roommate and told him I never wanted to see it again. 

In that last moment, that "Well, this is my last thought" moment, I finally understood that it was all real. I could not possibly hurt so much if I was not real, if what I had always thought and felt about myself had not always been true. For the first time in my life, I had not been experiencing self-doubt, and in that instant of clarity I saw my salvation. 

The problem, I came to realize, was not that I was a guy. The problem was that I wasn't a girl. If I had been born a girl, I probably would never have noticed the discrepancy between my self image and my physical self. Just being female would have allowed me to express myself. 

Like a car with no one at the wheel, I inevitably came to a crashing halt.

When it hits, it hits hard. I thought that transitioning was my only hope of survival, and when my world crumbled and I was no longer able to function, let alone continue with transition, I assumed that was it. The end. 

When I have a nervous breakdown and everything I am crashes down around me, the only thing that survives to rebuild everything is me. 

When you cut to the heart of everything, I'm more like a woman. 

Having been through all of these things many times over, I've learned that there is no other me. 



I sold or threw away almost everything I owned, because I had no way to hold on to any of it. I watched my friends all move away and packed one bag and prepared to live on the street. Or, rather, see how long it took before I ended up dead in a ditch. Faced with such grim prospects, I decided to get out my knife and get rid of that one little thing I had no use for...

I have to say this, real pain is a wonderful distraction from psychic agony. One cut. A handfull of stitches. The most embarassing moments ever spent in an ambulance or hospital. If I'd had a sharper knife, I doubt I'd still be around today--I really was not thinking at the time. I got pushed to the edge and said, "Fuck it! Might as well jump!" 

In order to back away from the edge, I had to accept the one option I hated most. I had to turn to my family for help... I had to resume the role of the wayward son, accepting the fact that I might never recover enough to transition. The last time I had confronted that, was the first time I had seriously contemplated suicide. 




Now, I don't know if I'm tapping into some past life, or something, and for the most part it doesn't how I came to be this way. It is simply the way I am. There is nothing that can be done that can change that.


To function in the world, even marginally, I have play the part of the man I am perceived to be. 

It still hurts being in the wrong body. It always seems like its killing me. But I can always close my eyes and feel myself, my true self and my true form. People may still see "him" but I know that "he" was created out of me. I don't have to live a lie. I don't have to hide.  I may not have the power to change my life, to make things right, but I don't have to give anyone else the power to define me. 

Whether there is a lesson in all that, or a moral... I don't know. I could have gotten my parents to listen to me as kid, if I had thought for a moment I could become a girl in truth. 

It doesn't matter. This is about who you are. What you are doesn't really matter. It's temporary at best. I've spent my whole life flipping back and forth between male and female, often not knowing for sure which I was supposed to be. In the end, I can only be me. When I accept that, when I allow it to fill me... oddly enough, it does. 

I hope that's something you can discover too.