At the risk of seeming to resume the previous flame war I am going to respond to this. I am keeping in mind the remark about tone, and conceed that if one inferred an exasperated tone in my previous post, \blue{What?} might have read it as an attack rather than an invitation to participate. 

I confess that it is difficult to read \blue{What?}'s posts without inferring an insulting or belittling tone. At the best his remarks seem sarcastic in nature while at worst they seem to express nothing but unfounded contempt. I can see how his initial remark to me might be considered humor, but it was humor at my expense that either presumed a degree of familiarity that is non-existant or else was smugly intended to imply precisely what I initially thought it did. 

But I'll forgive that. I've always believed that respect ought to be earned so I do not expect others to give me the benefit of the doubt, and certainly not a dogmatic skeptic. Further, I've already pointed out that some people are only capible of respecting the thoughts, feelings and ideas of others if they are forced to. \blue{What?} has exhausted the respect I granted him at the outset, and will not regain it until he  begins to show clear evidence of comprehending what others, including myself, have posted. That is not to say he has to agree with it, but I'd like to see something that indicates that he is participating in this forum and not simply trolling. I for one, am very curious about the thought process that paired up the two quotes he cited (post above). Granted, it does bring a typo to my attention (the line should read "...if your mind...") but I don't see what the two quotes have to do with each other or his "calling a rose by another name" remark. I am not seeing much evidence of comprehension. I am reminded of this exchange:

\blue{What?}: Prove that you aren't hiding under anonymity yourself. 

\blue{Me}: This is a particularly lazy ripost, requiring the opposition to disprove a negative. Incidentally, another attempt to belittle by challenging, again, the integrity of the opposition

\blue{What?}: IOW: What's good for the goose doesn't apply to the gander?

This isn't a response. It's hand waving avoidance. Either that or he really doesn't understand what I was saying. How can I prove that I am not hiding under the cover of anonymity? Even presenting my name and providing a link to an email account with every post will not change the fact that no one here knows who I am. I could give you my SSN and all my vital statistics, and you still would not know who I am. I am anonymous whether I want to be or not. Without actively trying to hide, I am hidden by anonymity. Trying to prove otherwise is a pointless waste of time, as I said. 

My invitation to participate in the discussion stands, \blue{What?}, and I look forward to the day when you accept it.