Helium Notions

Questions concerned with: 

Space:
the static principle
the prerequisite of a physical system, graphic parameters, a medium of expression
...undefined is infinite
...space becomes relevant only when it is defined
...a medium of definition
...a static context;
...dimensions;
...a graphic context;


Time:
the dynamic principle
the prerequisite of a variable system, operational parameters, a medium of resolution
time reletive to mass, acceleration
...undefined is eternal
...time becomes relevant only when it is defined
...a continuum of definition
...time apprehended in change;
...what is constant? 
...energy;
...what changes? 
...structure, relationship;
...the differentiation of a medium;

Energy:
the absolute or actual potential
...can not be created or destroyed, encompasses static and dynamic principle
...qualifiable and quantifiable
...transient and persistent
...energy equals mass times the speed of light squared, what is absent in the equation? 
...an equation derived from f=ma, what is mass?
...structure, relationship

Force: 
the fundamental expression of structure; application of energy
...indefinite, wrinkles in time and space

Matter:
matter distinguished from energy by, structure, energy and force interactions, mass...
the mass-energy of an electron? proton? neutron? other particles? 
the mass-gravity, mass-momentum, mass-intertia formulas; interrelated, interpolated?
mass equals energy divided by the speed of light squared, interpreted
...division of energy? 
...acceleration of energy? 
...relative motion, in what vector?
...speed of light times the speed of light? 
...perpendicular velocity? 
...wave speed in the medium of a vacuum? 
...inclusive, internal; not exclusive, external; a stitch in space and time; energy is the fabric and the thread; 

an atom has
...a position
...:vector - inertia (momentum)
...structure
...:electron(s), proton(s), neutron(s) 
...:charge
...:mass
...:height, width, depth

Optics:
coherent and focused light (a laser, at the focus of a lense) is more intense...
...as proven by their power to burn through matter;
...transferring more energy, exciting atoms, producing thermal motion and changes in the state of matter...
...concentration of light, concentration of energy;
...how much energy passes through the focal point in an organic optical system? 
...compared to the amount of energy at a point in a field of incoherent light?
...how do photons negotiate the focal point in an organic optical system?
...a wave principle...?
...interpenetration of light; 
...the four-dimensional light-path; 
...the mass-energy of a photon related to the electromagnetic forces in operation as related to the wave and particle states of light; 

Gravity:
gravity is proportional to mass, force of gravity is inversely proportional to square of distance between centers of mass;
relate center of mass, gravity...
...gravity interactions defined by structural terms;
...associated with mass, mass associated with structure, structure differentiates mass from energy;
...structure acts in opposition to gravity within a limited threshold, structural displacement of mass, structure & proportions in archetecture of forces;
...structure of matter defined as application of forces;
...mass, force of gravity attributed with distortion of space, distortion of space associated with mass/gravity/structure;
...structure, energy; constitution of forces, architectural application in constitution of matter; defining space;

