A great deal can be learned about the mind simply by observing how it goes about solving problems and resolving conflicts. We can deduce, from the existence so many "self-sustaining" beliefs that
the mind is conscious of its own existence and is concerned about
ensuring its own survival, even apart from the physical context in which
it initially finds itself. This is an incredibly significant
observation, and it applies to most of humanity. Even more important, in
cases where the mind cannot convince itself of the importance its
existence, the necessity of its suffering, and the siginficance of its
destiny, it can become self destructive. When the mind faces the
prospect of certain destruction (as it does in moments of unbearable and
inescapable sufering), when the mind perceives that it is trapped, it
will pursue the only escape available to it. 

Suicide in sentient beings
is utterly irrational, and yet, the mind somehow senses the prospect of
safety and survival in retreating into oblivion. There are many ways in
which the mind preserves itself by embracing oblivion. What is even more
interesting is the number of physical mechanisms that have evolved to
"protect" the mind (in addition to those that merely protect the brain).
In this thread, I am sure a good sized list can be assembled, but we can
include the effects of the dying process observed in cases of natural
and near death, the responses to overstimulation, understimulation,
sensory deprevation, trauma displacement, temporary insanity... Oblivion
is useful to the mind, embraced by the mind, and employed or outright
exploited by the mind. The reason for this, I suspect, is because
oblivion is innate to awareness, what we can call zero-awareness or
zero-dimensional awareness. Could it be significant that awareness in
it's least active and most passive state would naturally reduce itself
to a particle, a mathematical point?


I would like to take a moment
to explain what it is that I am doing here in my posts. I am not
engaging in the formulation of hypotheses in accordance to scientific
method. I am engaging in /paradigm shift/ the consideration of ideas and
concepts in accordance to how they relate to and effect one another. In
science and philosophy it is essential to recognize and formulate a
context in which phenomena occcur, and the result is a paradigm. That
might not be the dictionary definition, but that is the sense in which I
am using it here. The general paradigm of science is that things have an
innate physical existence, or are embodied in a physical context from
which information can be extracted, like mathematics, that is directly
dependant on and consistent with their physical origins. That is a
singluar and limted paradigm and the problem with it is that it is
ultimately static and does not account for the dynamic evidenced in the
transformation of the universe that is constantly occuring.

To pick a specific example of paradigm shift, let's look at what we call
energy. We don't know what it is. We postulate the existence of energy
on the basis of its effects, theorizing that energy is responsible for
all changes in state. An equation is, at its heart, a representation of
this. The equation defines two states, generally distinguished from one
another by time and expressed in variables constraining the scope of the
transformation or translation at hand. Energy is derived from an
equation by observing and measuring the nature and scope of changes that
occur in the relationships of static variables, mass, distance, time,
vector, et al. In many cases, energy can be derived by breaking down a
static variable, such as mass or force. Upon looking at all the ways
energy can be integrated with and abstracted from structure, many people
have concluded that all things arise from and are energy and the
physical universe simply a by-product of the ways in which energy can be
structured and how that structure determines the behavior of energy.
That leaves us with two perplexing questions, where before we had one.
What is energy and what influences and constrains energy to produce
structure? Of course, we arrive at this point oblivious to the fact that
we have lost track of an important contributor to this mystery.
Information. Without changing the nature of existence at all, we have
transformed the physical universe into a universe of energy and
information, a mental universe. That is a paradigm shift.

Please forgive me for the long and serial posts, but it does take a bit
of wind to make a point sometimes and space in these posts is limited.

My previous post was in part a clarification but I realized there is one
more step to go. Inlcuded as an example of paradigm shift above is what
amounts to an observation. It is an observation I have made and which
others before me have made. It was on the basis of such an observation
that I took a serious interest in pursuing the possability of phychic
phenomena.

In my initial post I pointed out a group of legetimate phychic
phenomena, awareness, will, intuition, thought, and emotion. These are
legitimately phenomena intrinsic to the psyche. The fantastic phychic
phenomena of telepathy, esp, telekensis or psychokinesis, teleportation
and derivitaves that could be classed as magic phenomena would depend on
one thing, something implicated in the paradigm shift I elaborated
above. We already accept the transformation or translation of matter
into energy and vice versa as possible consequences of quantum mechanics
and general relativity, but if there were also a legitimate mechanism
for the translation of energy into information and vice versa then we
would have a paradigm amenable to psychic phenomena. So far, we only
have examples of information derived from the observation of matter and
energy and the host of structures that result from their interaction.
That means that at present pure information exists only in the context
of thought, removed from nature to the degree that consciousness is
considered to derive from physical phenomena. The ability of the mind to
manipulate information has to be taken as clearly established in the
capacity for coherent thought, so it would follow, if pure information
can influence the disposition and structure of energy, psionics becomes
possible.

How probable would be another issue, but it could be explored from that
point. The current limit of psychic influence on reality is the manner
in which objects conceived of in the mind are constructed in the world
through physical action. It would not be surprising if that was easier
than trying to impress changes on the world through direct psychic
action, and can account for the absence of such abilities in a
technological society in a universe where such abilities were possible.
The simplest solution is generally the one employed in nature. At
present, knowledge is the only psychic derivitive we have devised
physical tools and machines to transmit, implement, exploit and
influence each other with, but those tools and machines are growing more
and more sophisticated and the range of information formats we can
employ has grown. There is no question that these things have a psychic
impact on us, if not the world, and in that you have a basis for
computers as psionics machines. The applications John Thiel has invited
us to speculate on can only be derived in a case where an
energy-information equivalence can be established, tested and sustained
in a scientific fashion. Until you have managed this paradigm shift, you
would not have had a criterion upon which to model an experiment. I know
that I lack the resources to pursue the matter beyond this point alone,
so I heartily invite others to take it up if they see fit. Me, I will
continue to ponder the possibility, free associating and refining my
perspectives to see if I can clarify the paradigm any further.


