I can almost picture my dream come true. It takes a miracle, and it might even be magical, but what else could you count on to make a fantasy real? I mean, just because magic, like myself, might not actually exist, that doesn't mean it can be written off. If a ghost of a girl like me can dream, even write those dreams down, then maybe there is a place and time when the things that fill our fantasies must be realized. Maybe, like me, they can still be true. Of course, I have something of a vested interest that being the case. For the rest of you, well, I can at least ask for the suspension of disbelief. 
	I know that won't be easy. In fact, I am certain I am going to stretch that almost beyond endurance. It will even break at some point, or at several points along the way. I know it did for me. The funny thing is, time keeps going on. If you just keep going on, even dreams torn asunder can mend. It's okay. The other side of it is, if you stay with me, if you hear me out--if by some wild, wonderful chance, you actually come to believe me, to believe in me--the implications might even scare you. That's okay too. At times, the implications terrify me. 
	You get used to it. 
	That is really the most frightening thing. A person can get used to just about anything. 
	I got used to the idea that people expected me to be a boy. I did not have a clue what that meant initially, and by the time I had enough experience to comprehend it I was in no position to argue that they had it all wrong. I can't tell you where I got the notion that I was really a girl. I was encouraged to think of myself as a boy and to look up to male role models, so there really is no explanation for my predisposition toward feminine modes of thought and expression. I was discouraged from behaving in ways I found most natural and compelled, often by force, to think and act in ways that were alien and peculiar to me. Of course, the whole matter was complicated by the fact that I was passed around like a hot potato, an unwanted and inconvenient consequence of a failed marriage. I came to think of my failure to think and act in the expected ways as the reason for an unending string of rejections and abandonments. I wanted, most of all, to be accepted for who I was so I did try to assert myself at first. As a result, I brought one of the most traumatic and crushing rejections of my childhood down upon myself. 
	I can hardly remember now what really happened the day my preference for the company of girls over boys provoked a confrontation. Instead of joining the boys in the kiddie pool, I was playing on the jungle gym with a girl. When they taunted me over it, I defied them by declaring that I would rather be a girl. What I remember is that things got rough from there. Violent. I remember being dragged into the pool and nearly drowned, and the faces that flash through my memory include my foster father... to this day I don't know if he took part in "setting me straight" or if he came out to rescue me from the other boys. What I can remember is that I was too terrified after that day to admit my true feelings to anyone. Anyone who "corrected" me about my behavior was participating in the conspiracy that was revealed to me so traumatically that day. 
	But the final blow came a year or two later, when I was settled into my new adoptive family. I had been thrilled to discover the encyclopedia colleciton my new family had, with it's extended children's resource books. In one of them I encountered my first graphic anatomic studies and finally learned what distinguished boys from girls. I could not have been more severely wounded if I had stumbled upon a loaded gun. 
	I can not describe the sense of betrayal I felt, nor how horrifying it is to be betrayed so profoundly by one's own body. In a desperate search for some ray of hope, some possability of redemption, I began to study in earnest the subject of human biology and the science that underscored it. To put the matter bluntly, the problem was a lot more complicated than plucking the stem off the apple. Fortunately, my introduction to science was through honest writing that admitted that science had barely begun to explain how the world and everything worked. There was a great deal that was not known, and thus I had room to hope. 
	Because science did not hold all the answers, I looked in other realms for possible solutions. I quickly determined that the sort of thing I was looking for, a physical metamorphosis, was most likely to be found in the form of magic or a miracle. A few years later, around the age of seven, I added science and medicine back to the list of possible solutions when I first heard of a person having a sex change. Of course, magic, miracles and sex changes were not things a small boy could really talk to people about, especially when he was absolutely terrified of being beaten and abandoned if anyone ever realized he was not normal. In fact, during the first seven or eight years I was with my new family, I spent most of my energy perfecting my cover as a happy, healthy supernumerary son. In the process, I managed to suppress my natural instincts so effectively that they surprised me when they spontaneously emerged. I can think back to a thousand times in my middle childhood when I remarked to myself that I really ought to have been a girl... but alas I was a boy, and I needed to accept that. 
	Eventually, I did. As I said, eventually you can get used to anything. Being a boy did not come naturally to me. It was a difficult and demanding role, but I was as dependant on my "cover" for survival as any spy. You have to believe that in order to live a lie and the only way to live a lie is to convince yourself that it is the truth. I explained away so many things, made so many excuses in order to shore up my "manhood". I told myself that everyone had questions about their identity, or "grass is greener" feelings about being the opposite sex. I looked at all the ways that boys and girls were alike, and pursued interests that were suitable for either sex. I was unconsciously striving for some middle ground, idealizing androgyny and preserving my own identity through a sort of "tomboyish adventurism". In truth, I was sort of the ultimate tomboy, a girl who enjoyed all the liberties of a boy. I very nearly came to accept being a boy. 
	And then puberty began to loom on the horizon. 

POSTED

IN DEVELOPMENT

Here's an interesting twist for those of you who are shouting "Tranny!" and sticking your fingers down your throat: The problem, I came to realize, was not that I was a guy. The problem was that I wasn't a girl. If I had been born a girl, I probably would never have noticed the discrepancy between my self image and my physical self. Just being female would have allowed me to express myself. Being a boy, however, and an artist as well, I endured the shocking discovery that the girl of my dreams was really the girl I dreamed of being. I found this out by meeting a girl who matched my "ideal" and instead of falling in love with her I became insanely jealous of her. It literally hurt to be in her presence.

I mean, really, I'd want to throw up just from looking at her. I envied her so powerfully it made me ill. High School and puberty are hell enough without things like this thrown in. I tried to be a man about it. I tried to get control of myself and told myself that it was ridiculous to want to be something I wasn't. But, you see, a real guy wouldn't want to be a girl. Now, I don't know if I'm tapping into some past life, or something, and for the most part it doesn't matter. There are as many theories about what causes gender dysporia as there are people who have tried to understand it. It really doesn't matter how I came to be this way. It is simply the way I am. There is nothing that can be done that can change that.

I live in a state of constant conflict between body and soul, unable to escape from who I am, and who I appear to be. To function in the world, even marginally, I have play the part of the man I am perceived to be. I am never free to just be myself. I tried to become that person several times, I tried to deny the insanity, the absurdity of my true identity... only to come within a hair of simply dropping dead. I know, that sounds dramatic, but it is true. The harder I tried, the harder it became to live. I would turn into an empty, emotionless shell, unable to think or act for myself. Like a car with no one at the wheel, I inevitably came to a crashing halt.

That's the price I have to pay for denying the truth, however good my reasons might be. The truth, like everything else, is complicated by the facts. I find myself in an impossible situation, and I am not afraid to admit it. Alexandrea Virginia Morgan is merely an alias, a name for a girl who was not born. Or rather, for a girl who was not born a girl, or even resembling in any way the person she is to the depths of her soul. But, at the same time, I am the only proof there is that I have a soul. This odd, impossible awareness of myself is the only thing that has sustained me in the face of unspeakable adversity. Without this unshakable conviction that I am, quite contrary to every fact of life, who I am, I would have died long ago.

Christmas is such an interesting thing. A dream we all share, a dream we all long to believe in clinging to the memory of our belief even in the hour of our disbelief. I don't believe in Santa Clause. That was taken from me unexpectedly in a moment of shared disbelief. It is a moment many of us can remember, the big disclosure, the stark revelation of how "we have been deceived". I can remember it, for all the details have faded. That sick feeling as I nodded my head and realized, "So, this too is a lie..."

As I look at it now, it is ironic. There is no reason why I can't believe in Santa Clause. I mean, what a wonderful thing to believe in! I belive in much stranger things to this day. Strangest of all, I belive in myself. There is only one person, apart from myself, who actually believes in me. To everyone else I am a dream. A memory so ancient even its distant echoes have faded away.

The point is, you're as likely to bump into Santa Clause in your living room late on Christmas Eve as you are to ever see or touch me. Why? Because it's easier to believe in this broken down world than it is to believe in me. It is easier to believe that we are all powerless than it is to believe that any of us could ever have the power to show our true faces. I'm not really that different from the next guy. No one here is exactly what they appear to be, and only a few are mostly what they appear to be. What makes me different is that I've come close to destroying myself time and time again because I fought so hard to break this illusion, shake off the lie, and show my true face, my true form.

I am a ghost of the girl I ought to be, and I see no reason to deny that. I sort of celebrate it here, by choosing and using my own identity here. Here, I am my own creation. Here I can be true to myself, unseen, untouched, but able to participate in the world. Why not let this pile of ashes serve as the place of my rebirth? Here, in this place of self-experssion and exploration, let me explore the nature of truth, the profoundity of inspiration, the power of intent! It doesn't matter if I believe in Santa Clause, because truly, the only thing that matters is if Santa Clause believes in himself. I know this, because I believe in myself and if not for that, I would not exist.

A good scare is like good sex. It is gripping and all consuming for an eternal moment, but once it has washed through you and you catch your breath, it evaporates. Like smoke, it unravels, curling in upon itself and expanding into nothing. Before you know it, only the memory remains. 