Okay, it's time for some people to climb down off their soap boxes. This discussion is getting a bit absurd. No one here is privy to the real story behind any of the atrocities that have been mentioned on this and related threads. There is not a government in the world that has not commited or participated in very nasty dealings. There is no religion which does not have its fanatics, and there are few fanatics (whether they call themselves fundamentalists or adherents to the one true faith) whose views and declarations do not make a sane and humane soul shudder with dispair and apprehension. 

It goes without saying that this is not the first time that innocent people were killed by indiscriminant actions perpetrated by callous individuals. It also goes without saying that those people did NOT deserve to die as they did. By saying "America deserved what she got" you're only endorsing the atrocity and the method by which it was carried out. Do not try to claim otherwise. If you think otherwise, you seriously need to reconsider how you're phrasing you opinion. 

The reactions to the tragedy are as varied as the people themselves. Most of those reactions are founded on the sheer disbelief that anyone would be able to DO what those terrorists did. From disbelief comes pain and outrage, from outrage comes rash words and passionate determination to do whatever it takes to ensure that such an occurance can never be repeated. It is sad and sickening that there are people who would and clearly are using this tragedy to further their own narrow minded agendas. It is a tragic thought that this incident might well compell otherwise good and decent people to turn their backs as Isreal moves in and slaughters the Palestines. It's a harrowing thought that a fun loving and carefree generation of American youths are rushing to join the American Armed Forces in hopes of engaging and killing people who had nothing to do with this, but who will be forced to take arms to defend their homelands from invasion by punitive forces. Most of all, it is a heart wrenching grief to know that this is the world we live in, and that personal, individual ideals do not shelter us from the evils committed by people we do not even know.

If there is anything redeeming in the more critical and unforgiving posts I've read so far, it is that there has been at least a hint that there is a problem which needs a solution. When more people are done with pointing the fingers of blame, perhaps we'll be ready do discuss the real problems and come up with solutions that are practical, effective and which people can actually live with. It starts with forgiveness... 

...and that starts here. I for one, forgive the people of Earth for succombing to their human frailties, for their selfishness, self-centeredness, and misguided self-pity. The is no greener grass on the other side of any fence. This is a hard world, and by the grace of God, we have all been given so much free will that we are allowed to slaughter each other's children, ravage each other's nations and families, and indulge in the cycle of violence for thousands of generations and still ask for forgiveness. I for one will forgive... the tears I shed for the loss of a single life are as real and true as the tears I shed for a girlfriend who fell to her death in Yosemite National Park, or for the crew of the Space Shuttle Challenger, or two year old Melissa who had the misfortune to be on the wrong plane September 11th... or even the men who took the controls of four jets and went to their deaths burdened by the souls of thousands...

Do not endorse these things, do not cast blame on innocent people for things they never had any control over, do not use this to further your own agenda... NO ONE deserves what has happened. No matter how much misery you find written in the past, such acts can never be justified. 

There will be war, because there has not been enough forgiveness. Piro said all there needed to be said in MegaTokyo... what we have witnessed is a failure of conscience, a monument to the failure of conscience at critical times going back for thousands of generations. The war that is coming is a testament of one other failing, one other tragic loss... our faith in humanity. How can we forgive an enemy who apparently has no conscience? How do we live in a community in which Honor has so little value?

It is such a shame that this happened in the day of the Internet, when for the first time in history a world community of common citizens has begun to weave itself together... 

:: shakes her head and walks away ::

Well... I'm glad I got through to a few people. For too long tragedy has been used to fan the flames of war, to recruit new adherents to questionable causes. For once the tools and resources exist for individual people to share their thoughts with the entire world, and I earnestly hope that people will remember that control comes from taking actions, not by simply reacting to everything that happens. I do not object to people airing their grievances for past and present atrocities, for certainly none should go unanswered. We are members of the HUMAN race, and each of us as individuals holds the sacred trust of conscience, courage and honor. For too long, faith in nations and religions have compromised our faith in humanity and God. For those of you who wished to point out other tragedies, do so! Find a proper forum, though. Do not pit one thing against another. Do not try to justify any atrocity, though we all must strive to understand how they came about and ask ourselves how to prevent their like from ever occuring again. 

I am of the opinion that this tragedy does call for Americans to be willing to fight... but not in the desert of Afganistan... no, we need to learn how to fight as individuals against adversity and injustice, how to defend our persons against those who stand up in the seat next to us on the plane seeking to cause death and destruction. Let terrorists come to our home and find people as strong and commited and willing to die for their beliefs waiting at the terminal, in the cockpit, and on the streets. Let us all strive to be the people on the fourth plane, rising from our seats to stop an atrocity even if it costs us our lives.

When no one may casually dominate another, we will live in a world where justice prevails.