notions-philosophy-ashember-journal_20061116-1410

I can almost picture my dream come true. It takes a miracle, and it might even be magical, but what else could you count on to make a fantasy real? I mean, just because magic, like myself, might not actually exist, that doesn't mean it can be written off. If a ghost of a girl like me can dream, even write those dreams down, then maybe there is a place and time when the things that fill our fantasies must be realized. Maybe, like me, they can still be true. Of course, I have something of a vested interest in that being the case. For the rest of you, well, I can at least ask for the suspension of disbelief.

I know that won't be easy. In fact, I am certain I am going to stretch that almost beyond endurance. It will even break at some point, or at several points along the way. I know it did for me. The funny thing is, time keeps going on. If you just keep going on, even dreams torn asunder can mend. It's okay. The other side of it is, if you stay with me, if you hear me out--if by some wild, wonderful chance, you actually come to believe me, to believe in me--the implications might even scare you. That's okay too. At times, the implications terrify me.

You get used to it.

That is really the most frightening thing. A person can get used to just about anything.

I got used to the idea that people expected me to be a boy. I did not have a clue what that meant initially, and by the time I had enough experience to comprehend it I was in no position to argue that they had it all wrong.

I can't tell you where I got the notion that I was really a girl. I was encouraged to think of myself as a boy and to look up to male role models, so there really is no explanation for my predisposition toward feminine modes of thought and expression. I was discouraged from behaving in ways I found most natural and compelled, often by force, to think and act in ways that were alien and peculiar to me.

Of course, the whole matter was complicated by the fact that I was passed around like a hot potato, an unwanted and inconvenient consequence of a failed marriage. I came to think of my failure to think and act in the expected ways as the reason for an unending string of rejections and abandonments.

I wanted, most of all, to be accepted for who I was so I did try to assert myself at first. As a result, I brought one of the most traumatic and crushing rejections of my childhood down upon myself.

I can hardly remember now what really happened the day my preference for the company of girls over boys provoked a confrontation. Instead of joining the boys in the kiddie pool, I was playing on the jungle gym with a girl. When they taunted me over it, I defied them by declaring that I would rather be a girl.

What I remember is that things got rough from there. Violent. I remember being dragged into the pool and nearly drowned, and the faces that flash through my memory include my foster father... to this day I don't know if he took part in "setting me straight" or if he came out to rescue me from the other boys. What I can remember is that I was too terrified after that day to admit my true feelings to anyone. Anyone who "corrected" me about my behavior was participating in the conspiracy that was revealed to me so traumatically that day.

But the final blow came a year or two later, when I was settled into my new adoptive family. I had been thrilled to discover the encyclopedia collection my new family had, with it's extended children's resource books. In one of them I encountered my first anatomical illustrations and finally learned what distinguished boys from girls.

I could not have been more severely wounded if I had stumbled upon a loaded gun.

I can not describe the sense of despair I felt, nor how horrifying it is to be betrayed so profoundly by one's own body. In a desperate search for some ray of hope, some possability of redemption, I began to study in earnest the subject of human biology and the science that underscored it. To put the matter bluntly, the problem was a lot more complicated than plucking the stem off the apple. Fortunately, my introduction to science was through honest writing that admitted that science had barely begun to explain how the world and everything worked. There was a great deal that was not known, and thus I had room to hope.

Because science did not hold all the answers, I also looked in other realms for possible solutions. I quickly determined that the sort of thing I was looking for, a physical metamorphosis, was most likely to be found in the form of magic or a miracle. A few years later, around the age of seven, I added science and medicine back to the list of possible solutions when I first heard of a person having a sex change.

Of course, magic, miracles and sex changes were not things a small boy could really talk to people about, especially when he was absolutely terrified of being beaten and abandoned if anyone ever realized he was not normal. In fact, during the first seven or eight years I was with my new family, I spent most of my energy perfecting my cover as a happy, healthy supernumerary son. In the process, I managed to suppress my natural instincts so effectively that they would surprise me when they spontaneously emerged. I can think back to a thousand times in my middle childhood when I remarked to myself that I really ought to have been a girl... but alas I was a boy, and I needed to accept that.

Eventually, I did.

As I said, eventually you can get used to anything. Being a boy did not come naturally to me, however. It was a difficult and demanding role, but I was as dependant on my "cover" for survival as any spy. You have to believe that in order to live a lie and the only way to live a lie is to convince yourself that it is the truth. I explained away so many things, made so many excuses in order to shore up my "manhood". I told myself that everyone had questions about their identity, or "grass is greener" feelings about being the opposite sex. I looked at all the ways that boys and girls were alike, and pursued interests that were suitable for either sex. I was unconsciously striving for some middle ground, idealizing androgyny and preserving my own identity through a sort of "tomboyish adventurism". In truth, I was sort of the ultimate tomboy, a girl who enjoyed all the liberties of a boy. I very nearly came to accept being a boy.

And then puberty began to loom on the horizon.

I could fill a book or two with the things that I struggled with as forces beyond my control warped me into the very anthesis of what my instincts and character insisted I was. But, these are just opening thoughts, an introduction to the first, and formost, question of my life. At some point in life, everyone asks "who am I?" but what do you do when the answer conflicts with what you physically are? 
