Do you believe in magic?

If you believe in the mind, the spirit or the soul, you are already on the side of magic. You might not support the concept of magic, but you are subscribing to the existence of invisible or intangible things as being real and powerful. Note, there is a distinction between the mind as I used it here and the mind as it is used in scientific and medical contexts. 

Speaking scientifically, the mind is the operating system and programs running in an active brain--in which consciousness is an illusion created by the activity of the brain and self awareness is the cruelest joke in all of nature. The ultimate lie. 

The next thing I'd like to point out is that there is a general flaw in the concept of Reality. Reality is not, scientifically, an absolute. In light of quantum mechanics, nothing exists in a concrete state until it is confronted explicitly and "measured". A simpler way of putting that is that "reality" is created by interaction, whether at the level of atomic particles or macroscopic entities like our selves. I like to put it this way, "Reality is created and sustained by participation." There are no absolute facts. All facts are a product of measure, and measure in natural terms is simply relational activity. Objective measure, which is the basis of all science, is a product of human invention and thus only as valid as the human beings who employ it. 

What could be more like magical thinking that imposing our own concepts and structures upon existence and calling that Reality?

Don't ask, "Do you believe in Magic?" You might as well ask, "Do you believe in ANYTHING AT ALL?" The essence of magic is belief. Unlike religious belief, which is properly called faith, magical belief is not passive. In Wicca, the embodiments of divinity and the powers of creation are not idle figureheads playing power games with our minds. They can be entreated to actively intervene in the course of reality, in part because the underlying belief system does not exclude the possibility out of hand. A less daring individual might regretfully subscribe to a less demanding belief in "reality" and conclude that seemingly miraculous things can only happen when the necessary principles are scientifically described and harnessed mechanically (or electronically)... but for the average person science is as much a matter of faith as religion. The average person has neither the time nor the inclination to discover and understand the principles behind our technological marvels. 

The foundation of magic is this. You don't have to understand how it works in order for it to happen. You do have to know how to access and operate it to some degree, but that process is experiential and experimental. You grow into it. It's an art. 

Do you believe in Art?

Re: Do you believe in magick?

This thread has grown to the point where I almost hesitate to contribute. I can only claim to have read half of it. My first thought, however, is that it doesn't matter how you spell it... it is how you define magic that matters first. It's pretty clear by this point, however, that people are never going to agree on a definition of magic, but I will posit a general theme: magic is a means or method of influencing reality in a non-material, non-mechanical way. The general idea is that there are ways of being or acting beyond the rational-linear material based principles accepted as scientifically viable. 

If you believe in the mind, the spirit or the soul, you are already on the side of magic. You might not support the concept of magic, but you are subscribing to the existence of invisible or intangible things as being real and powerful. Note, there is a distinction between the mind as I used it here and the mind as it is used in scientific and medical contexts. Speaking scientifically, the mind is the operating system and programs running in an active brain--in which consciousness is an illusion created by the activity of the brain and self awareness is the cruelest joke in all of nature. The ultimate lie. 

The next thing I'd like to point out is that there is a general flaw in the concept of Reality. Reality is not, scientifically, an absolute. In light of quantum mechanics, nothing exists in a concrete state until it is confronted explicitly and "measured". A simpler way of putting that is that "reality" is created by interaction, whether at the level of atomic particles or macroscopic entities like our selves. I like to put it this way, "Reality is created and sustained by participation." There are no absolute facts. All facts are a product of measure, and measure in natural terms is simply relational activity. Objective measure, which is the basis of all science, is a product of human invention and thus only as valid as the human beings who employ it. 

What could be more like magical thinking that imposing our own concepts and structures upon existance and calling that Reality?

Don't ask, "Do you believe in Magick?" You might as well ask, "Do you believe in ANYTHING AT ALL?" Because, the essence of magic (and it's an art, like music, so don't quibble about the spelling!) is belief. Unlike religious belief, which is properly called faith, magical belief is not passive. In wicca, the embodiments of divinity and the powers of creation are not idle figureheads playing powergames with our minds. They can be entreated to actively intervene in the course of reality, in part because the underlying belief system does not exclude the possability out of hand. A less daring individual might regretfully subscribe to a less demanding belief in "reality" and conclude that seemingly miraculous things can only happen when the necessary principles are scientifically described and harnessed mechanically (or electronically)... but for the average person science is as much a matter of faith as religion. The average person has neither the time nor the inclination to discover and understand the principles behind our technological marvels. 

The foundation of magic is this. You don't have to understand how it works in order for it to happen. You do have to know how to access and operate it to some degree, but that process is experiential and experimental. You grow into it. It's an art. 

Do you believe in Art?

I put a lot of life into that answer. If I knew how to throw in a link here I'd refer you to the post I made in my journal just the night before... (or you can just click on my avatar and see it on my page) B-) Synchronicity is such a wonderful thing. 

Christmas is such an interesting thing. A dream we all share, a dream we all long to believe in clinging to the memory of our belief even in the hour of our disbelief. I don't believe in Santa Clause. That was taken from me unexpectedly in a moment of shared disbelief. It is a moment many of us can remember, the big disclosure, the stark revelation of how "we have been deceived". I can remember it, for all the details have faded. That sick feeling as I nodded my head and realized, "So, this too is a lie..."

:disbelief:

As I look at it now, it is ironic. There is no reason why I can't believe in Santa Clause. I mean, what a wonderful thing to believe in! I belive in much stranger things to this day. Strangest of all, I belive in myself. There is only one person, apart from myself, who actually believes in me. To everyone else I am a dream. A memory so ancient even its distant echoes have faded away.

:worry:

Tonight, for some reason, I am not afraid to confront it. Alexandrea Virginia Morgan is merely an alias, a name for a girl who was not born. Or rather, for a girl who was not born a girl, or even resembling in anyway the person she is to the depths of her soul. But, at the same time, I am the only proof there is that I have a soul. This odd, impossible awareness of myself is the only thing that has sustained me in the face of unspeakable adversity. Without this unshakable conviction that I am, quite contrary to every fact of life, who I am, I would have died long ago.

:crazy:

I live in a state of constant conflict between body and soul, unable to escape from who I am, and who I appear to be. To function in the world, even marginally, I have play the part of the man I am perceived to be. I am never free to just be myself. I tried to become that person several times, I tried to deny the insanity, the absurdity of my true identity... only to come within a hair of simply dropping dead. I know, that sounds dramatic, but it is true. The harder I tried, the harder it became to live. I would turn into an empty, emotionless shell, unable to think or act for myself. Like a car with no one at the wheel, I inevitably came to a crashing halt.

:invisible:

Here's an interesting twist for those of you who are shouting "Tranny!" and sticking your fingers down your throat: The problem, I came to realize, was not that I was a guy. The problem was that I wasn't a girl. If I had been born a girl, I probably would never have noticed the discrepancy between my self image and my physical self. Just being female would have allowed me to express myself. Being a boy, however, and an artist as well, I endured the shocking discovery that the girl of my dreams was really the girl I dreamed of being. I found this out by meeting a girl who matched my "ideal" and instead of falling in love with her I became insanely jealous of her. It literally hurt to be in her presence.

:puke:

I mean, really, I'd want to throw up just from looking at her. I envied her so powerfully it made me ill. High School and puberty are hell enough without things like this thrown in. I tried to be a man about it. I tried to get control of myself and told myself that it was ridiculous to want to be something I wasn't. But, you see, a real guy wouldn't want to be a girl. Now, I don't know if I'm tapping into some past life, or something, and for the most part it doesn't matter. There are as many theories about what causes gender dysporia as there are people who have tried to understand it. It really doesn't matter how I came to be this way. It is simply the way I am. There is nothing that can be done that can change that.

:shrug:

The point is, you're as likely to bump into Santa Clause in your living room late on Christmas Eve as you are to ever see or touch me. Why? Because it's easier to believe in this broken down world than it is to believe in me. It is easier to believe that we are all powerless than it is to believe that any of us could ever have the power to show our true faces. I'm not really that different from the next guy. No one here is exactly what they appear to be, and only a few are mostly what they appear to be. What makes me different is that I've come close to destroying myself time and time again because I fought so hard to break this illusion, shake off the lie, and show my true face, my true form.

:plotting:

I am a ghost of the girl I ought to be, and I see no reason to deny that. I sort of celebrate it here, by choosing and using my own identity here. Here, I am my own creation. Here I can be true to myself, unseen, untouched, but able to participate in the world. Why not let this pile of ashes serve as the place of my rebirth? Here, in this place of creation, among my fellow creators, let me explore the nature of truth, the profoundity of inspiration, the power of intent! It doesn't matter if I believe in Santa Clause, because truly, the only thing that matters is if Santa Clause believes in himself. I know this, because I believe in myself and if not for that, I would not exist.

:meditation:

It makes a difference when you approach the question from the perspective of necessity, and few have as great a need to find the path to true magic than those of us seeking literal transformation. I have seen my fill of charlatans and rationalists, enough to crush the hopes of all but the most determined. I can tell you this. There are things in this universe, this dream we all share, that defy explanation... that a rational person would bend over backwards to describe as madness or coincidence, and still I have not seen what you and I would call true magic. I do not believe that it is because there is no such thing as magic. Rather, it is because there are few things that happen which we are not able to explain... and that takes the magic out of it. These subjective experiences are mere snowflakes on the tip of the ice burg.

You do not have a choice, really, when it comes to believing in magic. Even in stage magic, you will find the essence of true magic... the mystery hidden in the experience of a profound illusion. When the girl is sawed in half, underneath the wonder and disbelief, there is a part of our psyche that whispers to us an explanation of the magic. Not the trick. No. The manner in which such a thing could actually be done if you went about it the right way. It is this part of us that functions in suspension of disbelief to make books and movies real to us. That allow us to glimpse the reality conveyed to us in the story.

That is the Art. Mind over Matter. Because all that matters is in the mind. I make no distinction between magic or miracle, because either term denies the truth of the power of the Art, and distracts us from the origin of that power. Our own creativity. People talk about demons and the devil and even God, lending them all the power and mystery, when in truth that power is ours until we give it to them. To quote myself, it really doesn't matter if we believe in Santa Clause. What matters is if Santa Clause believes in himself... and this same rule holds true for us and even our gods as well.

Do not worry. I speak not in desire of praise or attention, but only to encourage those who can believe to believe... to believe in a world in which a person like me can step out of the dreams in which I am exiled into this world. So, there in lies my own self interest, and beyond that I hope only to inspire others to discover and share their true selves. If my words carry the ring of truth or wisdom, then maybe I've finally passed the point where a person can only speak of the truth in obscuring metaphor and allusion.

I am always willing to share my insights and experiences with those who ask, and though I have ambitions to be a writer, I confess I have been hesitant to consider writing a book on this topic (though others have suggested it before). To be honest, there are places on the path of enlightenment where language fails you and everything you write sounds like the ravings of insanity... My notes and journals contain things that make even me stand wide eyed and wild haired in shock.

But, the one thing that makes me most cautious is this: At some point, in order to act in accordance with your beliefs, even a belief in the Truth if you can glimpse it, it becomes necessary to contemplate breaking rules. I find in interesting that a world that holds little faith in magic is so strongly organized to oppose the pursuit of magic. In many subtle and in many blatant ways, magic is outlawed. Today, it hides behind a mask of laughing disdain, but you will find many people and institutions both willing and determined to directly oppose any pursuit of magic directly out of fear that you will find it.

However, I can say this. If you are looking for magic, look within yourself. It is the hardest thing you will ever do, until you find it... and then, hardest of all, you must give it to yourself because no one else can give it to you and it cannot be taken--from you or by you. Believe me, there is no harder or more demanding task. If you ever suffer from the belief that magic is free, or easier than doing things the "hard" way, or that magic is somehow cheating... throw that thought away! Magic has a price. It requires you to be true to yourself, and it requires you to become whole. You have to survive facing your fears and doubts (and even the fears and doubts of those around you) and in the pursuit of magic those fears and doubts can take on a frightening life and reality of their own.

Ah... getting carried away here. How about this? If you're interested (anyone who reads this) just drop me a note. Anyone who wants to sort through tons of disturbing notes can get co-credit for whatever article or book can be made of it. This kind of stuff just pours out of me whenever it give it the least bit of attention. I really only meant to encourage those of you who do belive to examine those beliefs, strip them of their dogmatic limits and let them lead you to the truth. Free your minds and all that.

:crazy:

To Thine Own Self Be True [Journal Entry: Mon Feb 6, 2006, 12:05 AM]
Or, Know Thyself!

I don't expect this to be a particularly deep or inspiring journal entry. In part, it was just time to put something else up on my page. It occurs to me, however, that there is an obvious transgender:self-absorbed thread emergent in my journal. Maybe it's time I addressed that. I look at this journal feature pretty much as my journal. The point of writing a journal, really, is to have a place where you never have to lie to yourself, or live up to the assumptions imposed upon you from the outside. It's a place to be naked, natural and unashamed. To that extent, I feel free to write anything that comes to mind, and I really don't care that this is ultimately open to public perusal.

However, just because I am willing to allow you to peek into my thoughts, that does not necessarily mean that you will understand me. You might see the word transgender and form some impression of me based on that. Me, I am not entirely sure that the lable communicates any significant fact or truth about me. I am not the wrong gender, as the word implies. I do not subscribe to the belief that who I am is derived from what I am... or rather, I do not accept that the physical takes precedence over the spiritual or the mental. If you asked me what I am, I would be forced to tell you that I am a girl who happens to be a boy. A female that happens to be male.

That ought to be confusing. Believe me, it confused the hell out of me for years! I cannot make it unconfusing for you. I have spent years trying to accomplish this task with the people I know and love most. My family and friends all persist in thinking of me as a defective boy. Well, the fact is, I am a boy. I've learned to accept that and live with it. Unfortunately, the truth is--has always been and will always be--that I am a girl. It's a paradox, and so am I, and I've learned to accept that and to live with it. If you read this and decide that I'm a guy and you will treat me as such, well... I face the same thing every day of my life, every time I encounter another human being.

That is preferable to trying to make you understand what it is like to be me... to understand me enough to understand me. I say this because I have alienated too many people by trying to put my subjective experiences with this into words... because the words speak of a hell of bitter hoplessness and torment, and because suffering is personal and what I suffer cannot be compared to what another human being has suffered in his or her life. If some of those words leak out in my journal, please forgive me... but wounds must bleed a bit to clense themselves and allow for healing. You can empathize, or not, but let it pass. That's not what's important.

What is important is what brought me here... what lies at the very heart of every effort I've ever made to express myself. Alexandrea Virginia Morgan does not legally, or materially, exist, but that is who I am. That is the person that revealed herself to me through my art over the course of my life. For a long time, she was the perfect muse. It was only as I was beginning to find myself as an artist that I realized that she was the product of my unconscious search for my own reflection. The face and form I longed to see to confirm my own existence. Can you imagine what that was like, when I realized that the girl of my dreams was in truth the girl I dreamed of being?

:crazy:

I've always loved the way that the Internet has allowed me to be me, where I am truly represented solely by the expression of myself. I came to DeviantART to represent myself, to present myself in my art... because in a very real sense, my art is me. I wish I was a better artist, that I could make myself more easily and more accurately seen, but I think I'll save my wishes for something truly miraculous and just work on becoming the best artist I can learn to be. But, as I value the truth so much, I cannot allow myself to obscure the ugly side of it. I am, by necessity, also someone else. Someone who, in a very real sense, is my creator, my author... a man who owns me and yet does not own himself. A man who, by the fact of his existence, obscures the truth of mine. A man who can only live because I do not want to die.

Ah, this just scratches the surface of the paradox... but I do wonder. If I introduced you to him would he eclipse me in your eyes? If it meant that you had to accept the reality and truth of magic and miracles, would you welcome the possability of me manifesting myself, my true self, in the flesh? Interesting questions, and I am curious how people would answer them... but I don't expect you to. This is just, well... my own version of the Matrix. It started as the feeling that something was wrong, not so much with the world in general, but certainly with my world. But I can talk about that next time.

This Too Is The Art...

