John Thiel replied: \blue{David, the modern philosophy to which I was referring is established philosophy; I don't know if you're an established philosopher or not. However, it's certainly valid to consider what you're writing to be philosophy.}

As it happens, I am not established so I appreciate the clarification. It can be difficult to use spirit as a concept in discussion because it represents many different things to many different people and can be employed in a number of contexts. Most importantly, however, it provides us with another context, an alternate format, in which to explore existence without imposing an unnecessary requirement for a physical explanation or origin. In speaking of the presence of spirit as a requisite of nature, I was being cautious. We are a thousand generations from the birth of spirit as a concept, and examination of these ancient concepts of spirits and spirituality it is fairly obvious that they were intended to explain and account for the abstract \i{and} the unknown, so in addition to a conceptual framework for psychic phenomena like dreams, thoughts and emotions it also serves as a foundation for ghosts, demons, angels, gods and elementals. 

In questioning the existence of the spirit we set ourselves on the road of questioning our own existence. I've often said, it does not matter if I believe in God since what really matters is if God believes in Himself. This is because no one can assure you that you exist if you are unable to assure yourself of that. While a definition of existence can be asserted, the best definition of a thing is the thing itself. Existence is an idea that can assert itself and encompass its own existence, but that primitive definition is so naked and singular that demands constant expression and elaboration to define itself more accurately and specifically. In addition, many process serve to define by comparison and contrast, so that which does exist will define not only itself but anything else that can exist in assocition with or in contrast to it. 

