Hmmm. Okay then. If we are embracing the field of parapsychology we really are not that far from discussing outright mysticism. We can be certain that we will be treading on the sensabilities of conventional thinking. It just can't be helped. Might I ask if this thread is open to the in depth discussion of psionics, or do you prefer that we take that area as given and focus exclusively on the qualities and characteristics of a machine that exploits or is exploited by psionics?

While awaiting that answer, I have to admit that I explored the idea of technology based on the emergence and study of psionic abilities in the human population, and I have seen many stories which featured devices that might be described as psionic machines. For example, in reference to a telepathy machine, I've run across stories exploring virtual reality technology where non-invasive EM (or related field effect devices) were employed as the mechanism for mind-machine interface. I have a horrible memory for names, and this sometimes extends to titles, so forgive me if I cannot immediately cite references. The movie Strange Days does come to mind as utilizing this type of technology. There is not much speculation on how it works or why, since it is largely a plot device. 

This dovetails nicely with Adam's comment, so let me digress. I am not a huge fan of the "mind as a by product of electrochemical activity in the brain" school of thought. I mean, who wants to think of themself as a side effect. More importantly, that line of thinking ultimately excludes the possability of a soul unless something even more exotic is introduced. However, in approaching all of existence from a foundation in Physics, no alternative is likely to emerge from science. As a way of keeping that door open for the moment, I posit a general alternative for speculation. That is, I suggest that the brain could function in a transmitter/transciever capacity in which the mind serves as a bridge between the body and the soul. In effect, the psyche exists outside the realm of the physical universe and the body serves it as an avatar, a remote vehicle for interacting with and exploring this universe. 

This really only formalizes the assumption that is necessary in order to posit any spiritual existence or reality. 

In anticipation of the obvious criticism, I could have just as easily said that the mind (and or soul) exists in another dimension of the universe. At least if the mind is regarded as a phenomena intrinsic to this universe and not, as a part of the soul, a part of something independant of this universe. I did not say this initially because the broader philosophy I work with regards a soul as an absolute expression, and things such as space, time and mind are descrete media in which the possabilities and potentials of absolutes find representation and expression. I won't say more than that now, since it would certainly go off topic.