it205
Discussion Question 2
 
Why is the waterfall model valuable in the management of information technology projects? Explain your answer.

Implementing and maintaining an information technology project will involve many individual tasks and objectives. The waterfall model begins by breaking the project down into those steps in order of implementation. In general, figuring out what you have to work with at present, what is possible to implement, what is affordable and practical, what is necessary and at times what is wanted, is what allows you to define the scope and specifics of the project itself. Having looked at the options and determined what to do, you then have to find a way to do it in the time available under the project budget. The planning and design stages will provide the answers needed for development. In the waterfall model, each step or stage is successfully concluded before moving to the next. Some stages might not work out, but stepping back one step and revising the plan can keep the project on track, whereas a shotgun implementation could be completely derailed by a failure at any point in the plan. In specific, the budget could be tied up in the purchase of components that are incompatible with the proposed design, or a network developed witout an assessment of the existing infrastructure might replicate existing technology without providing any additional functionality. 

Taken in turn, the stages of implementation help to ensure that nothing is overlooked. Decisions that affect work down the line are finalized in a way that approaches the intended results, locking the project down as it progresses and freeing time, attention and resources for the task at hand. Some stages may involve a little backtracking, such as design and testing, but the project manager can always keep his or her eye on the ball, even if it gets handed back and forth. Once the final product is vetted, it can be emplaced at client sites and implemented quickly and efficiently. After that, it is simply a matter of maintaining the infrastructure in place. This management model can be used by a small IT division of two or three people, or an entire team of specialist, each responsible for the work done at each stage of implementation. 

soc120
Discussion Question 2
 
Study the Suicide Rates map on p. 11 in the text.  How do each of the theorectical approaches to sociology explain the data on the map?  Which approach best explains the data, in your opinion?  Refer to the Applying Theory table on p. 14 in the text to complete this discussion question.

The map that is provided needs to be compared to one concerned specfically with population density, and both would be better if they presented the geographical incidence more accurately. However, the map provided does suggest some degree of physical isolation in association with the incidence of suicide, from which very general impressions can be formed. My initial impression is that physical isolation would compound social isolation, presenting less opportunity for intervention due to less opportunity for interaction. I do not think that the map data provides strong support for the Isolation theory, which is itself too general. It identifies isolation factors in relation to suicides, but the implication that isolation is a cause is misleading and misconceived. Isolation can account for a higher incidence of "successful" suicides, but that can be seen as a factor concerned with opportunities for intervention, again, and does not explore factors concerned with suicidal impulses. The data presented only supports a theory for the circumstances in which a person is more likely to succeed in killing him- (or her-)self. 

The structural-functional approach would be well suited to a more detailed statistical analysis, but limited to the map data it would not be able to reach an accurate conclusion, even though it's macro-level image and core thinking would be receptive to the Isolation theory, expressing a clear relationship between isolation and the incidence of suicide. The map data on physical isolation is very suggestive. The social-conflict approach is not as well adapted to the study of this question using the map data. Presuming a conflict based mechanism, the assumptions of the Isolation theory do not lend themselves well, so a study would not only be interpretive, it would likely be more speculative in nature, delving into notions of people driven to suicide by the inherent inequality of society -- perversely in spite of the fact that the typical beneficiaries of social inequality are among those most likely to commit suicide! The Symbolic-Interaction approach would be able to take the map data in stride, but it would acheive more effective results using additional sources of data. The critical thinking and emphasis on the nature of interactions that is part of this approach would make it best able to explore the factors and causes of suicide, being the most likely to look beyond the surface corelation and address the subjective conditions that lead to suicidal ideation, the social opportunities for intervention, and the physical isolation in which an individual can become the most detached and self-absorbed in his or her suffering. 


Structural-Functional 	Social-Conflict 		Symbolic-Interaction
Approach 		Approach 		Approach
Scientific 			Interpretive 		Critical