Yes, John. That is precisely what I am saying. Science limits itself as a discipline to one single method of operation and anything which cannot be subjected to that method is excluded from science. Science is a very good and reliable tool for testing the mechanics of reality. But, when all you've got is a hammer, then all your problems begin to look like nails. Humanity needs other tools, and they need to use those tools in a  cooperative and coordinated way. 

Hey, \blue{What?}... your opening remarks to me were the equivalent of "shut up and die". You follow that with lazy accusations of deceitfulness and fallacious reasoning, all the while hiding under the cover of anonymity. You pretend to be in a morally superior position while practicing the lowest form of hostile, maliciously reasoned arguement. If you don't like the way I present myself, you certainly did not give me any reason to respect your sensabilities. Your false assumptions about the integrity and quality of my character are insulting and have no bearing on the topic in discussion. That I express myself in the habit of a fiction writer ought to be no insurmountable obstacle in the mature and enlightened exchange of ideas between sane, sensible and intelligent individuals. You have made no worthy contribution to this thread, when, with the same motivation you could have stimulated discussion with polite challenges, as so: "You're writing as if this is established fact. Upon what thinking or observation do you base these assertions?" 

No. The problem with you, my friend, is that you just don't give a damn.

The irony of this whole discussion is that the holy grail of science is, in effect, the equvalent of a psionics machine. The long sought and as yet unattained Unified Field Theory is an attempt to come up with a method of predicting the nature, function and behavior of the Universe. Inevitably, a computer would be employed, utilizing the mathematical formulas and algorythms of such a theory, to predict the outcome of events. To a lesser degree, the general application of science meets the general criteria of a psionics machine geared toward providing us with a degree of precognition. Obviously, we'll continue to call it something more rational sounding, like "statistical analysis" or "modelling". 

\blue{What?}: \i{That's really the domain of science as a whole.} 

\blue{Me}: \i{To a lesser degree, the general application of science meets the general criteria of a psionics machine geared toward providing us with a degree of precognition.}

It almost sounds like we are in agreement here. The part where my arguement ties in with the topic, if computers could be employed as psionic machines, is where computers are used to model an event in an attempt to predict the outcome of an event. Here, one could compare the function to the psychic ability of precognition, since the actual event the model attempts to predict would necessarily occur in the future, and thus is an event not experienced. In this application, we can posit that the situation comes close to meeting the criteria of the question. You could call this machine precognition, but, as I pointed out, in application it would be called something else. 

The use of science to determine as best as possible the most successful method of acheiving a goal, from building a bridge to plotting a trajectory to Mars, is a practical exercise in artificial precognition. Actual precognition is primarily imagination, and it is as accurate as the individual's internal capacity to model future events based on previous experience, observation and deduction. It's not a mystical ability, unless you neglect to examine the process, and it need not be regarded as a mystical ability. It's just predictive modeling combined with visualization.  