John, I do hope you are not including me in that assessment of modern philosphy. In as much as what I do must be considered more in the way of philosphy than science, I do hope you see the effort I've gone to in order to recognize the presence of spirit as an overlooked requisite in nature. Granted, this does encourage individuals like \blue{What?} to condemn my thinking as fallacious, but I consider that a natural risk of considering what is required in order for an idea to be true as opposed to merely factual. 

To emphasize the point I was trying to make most recently, the proposition I've been discussing has been one in which awareness is an innate attribute to existence. To be specific, asserting that in the absence of awareness existence can not occur, such that "nothing" itself is dependant on awareness in order to exist, that in fact "anything" and "everything" that can exist does so only by virtue of possessing innate awareness or as a dependant of something possessing innate awareness. The most primitive example of awareness being a zero dimensional singularity, emphasizing the clarification that oblivion is an awareness of nothing and not the absence of awareness. The most complex and sophisticated example of awareness I've posited, by contrast, being a four-dimensional mind or individuality emcompassing an infinite number of points and associated structures. 

At this point, I usually have to point out that I do not consider time to be the fourth dimension, but rather reemphasize my observation that time is a discreet medium, like space or the mind. To support that, I observe that we actually exist in an eternal moment, a point of time which we call "now". Our concept of time as being linear is based on the perception of the past as a string of events bound by causality. The future, however, is anything but a line, having potential dimensions consistant with the number of options and parameters from which "now" is eternally derived. We are sold on the notion of four dimensional space-time by the mental exercise of trying to picture the evolution of our spatial universe along this presupposed thread of continuity. One can plot time in such a spatial reference, producing a multiverse of discrete points in time in an intricate tapestry of temporal vectors from which converging, diverging, conmutual, parallel, exclusive, consecutive and collateral time lines might be derived and mapped in three dimensions to account for an infinate gradation of universes distinguished by temporal variances, or in a four-dimensional fugue in which actual time travel is possible, along with pan-universal transit, but, I think that would involve much of the same artifice required to posit the world-thread we currently believe in. It might be applicable and exploitable, but it would not be the most accurate model of existence. It is more profitable to explore the reason why space and time coincide in the mind.

The question of where space, time, matter and energy originate is one physics still struggles to answer, largely because there is an implicit question within that question that science cannot address: Why do space, time, matter and energy exist? What does the existence of these phenomena derive from? In what context is it necessary or permissable for such things to exist? 

For us, existence is a given, at least temporarily, because it is self evident. The universe is merely the context in which we exist. Living is existing within the context of this universe. Our understanding of existence is formed in that context. In death, we see the possibility of oblivion, a point past which we cannot exist. In birth we see a point prior to which we did not exist in the sense that we exist now. From this we deduce that existence has parameters, and current thinking asserts that the sole parameters for our existence are established by this universe. However, we do not know the parameters or context that justify the existence of the universe. 

I think that the reason why this understanding escapes us is because humanity has a habit of trying to exclude itself from nature. In the same way that the evolution of the human mind can be intimately associated with the evolution of the human body, the origin and evolution of the universe is intimately associated with the origin and evolution of consciousness. By assuming that there are no correlations between our minds and the universe they encompass, we blind ourselves to the many ways in which our minds could be shaping the universe. It's already well known that our concept of reality is based on concensual and consensual agreement, but what if our actual reality is subject to similar influence?

Can you imagine the result of a mind with the power to redefine reality acting under the imperitive that no psychic phenomenon can be proven scientifically to occur? Whatever influence such a mind, or concensus of minds, exerted would have to be disguised as the result of some other natural phenomenon, even to the point of liberally rewriting the past and creating the physical proof required to satisfy any scientific inquiry. 

I know how this sounds, but it operates on a simple principle of structure-information equivalency. Unlike the energy-information equivalency I posited before, an actual structure-information equivalency does exist in the medium of awareness. In the mind, information is structured awareness. There is also an obvious structure-information equivalency in our biochemestry... actually, innate to chemestry and atomic or particle physics. I am always stumbling across parallels between structure in thought and structure in matter, and the interactions of emotion and energy in their respective contexts. Sorry, getting side-tracked. 

The point is that information and structure are related. If the equivalancy is truly reflexive, the only thing required to change the world would be the ability to change the information that structures it. I do not expect that such a feat would be easy, as that could require altering information that exists in the minds of everyone (or the majority of those) who has invested some attention in that information, or it could be equivalent to trying to alter the mind of God. Too much about the possible relationship between thought or attention and reality remains to be pondered. Everything we ever dreamed about the powers of the psyche could meet their demise on the grounds of simple concensus, we simply cannot agree on a better world, a world where we were free to express ourselves so openly and directly, where we were responsible enough to be so empowered. Maybe it's simply a symptom of our inability to take the initiative, take responsability for our existence and assert ourselves. Maybe that's a part of ourselves we come into in the "afterlife". Maybe life in this universe is our "Kobiyashi Maru" and it's simply something we must endure before we can graduate to a better life. 

Has anyone noticed the implied equivalency between energy and awareness in my more recent posts? The similarities are there if you look for them. How offensive would it be to suggest that awareness is an innate property of energy? Does primal energy demonstrate a tendancy to resolve into a point in a void? Is energy invested in all structure? Is it possible that the manner in which energy is structured might generate specific forces with distinct reletivistic properties? Do these forces evidence different dimensions of influence or complexity? What phenomena could correspond with the expression or structuring of energy in 0 dimensions? 1 dimension? 2 dimensions? 3 dimensions? 4 dimensions? 

These are the kind of questions that hit me in my quiet and chaotic moments. I think that points, lines and planes of force are evident in most observable manifestations of electromagnetism, while gravity is the only force that requires 4 dimensions to fully "envision", which would imply that you can have 3 orders of particles without mass, all of which would be able to interact within a mass particle as part of it's innate structure, speaking purely of energy in a geometric structure. I suppose the interaction of polar and planar forces might account for what has been observed as the strong and weak nuclear forces, but I'd need to do some more research and think on it for a bit. 