When it comes to misconceptions, it often isn't enough to point out how someone is wrong. It is more productive to prompt people to express their thinking and use one's own knowledge on the subject (assuming it is comprehensive and pertinent) to inform one's questions. In real life one rarely has access to the facts in a casual discussion, of course. 

The most universal human trait seems to be our ability to hate each other over any discernable difference in appearance or circumstance. Personally, I am tired of it. The idea that it is too much for individuals to choose to over come in themselves taxes my faith in Humanity. 

What good does it do to point out that what people think is wrong when the real problem lies in how they think--or fail to?


The 9-11 attacks on the US brought the horrors of terrorism home to Americans, and forced us to face a grim reality that has existed in the Middle East for over a thousand years. One of the difficulties Americans have had is connecting the events of 9-11 to the history of conflict in the Middle East and understanding them in the context of centuries of struggle over national and religious differences. In the wake of 9-11, following the detention and investigation of Muslims, Arabs and related groups and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, there has been a patriotic-based growth of tension and hostility toward people of Middle Eastern descent. People's natural horror and outrage at the slaughter of innocent Americans and the destruction of the World Trade Center has been underscored by the actions of the US government, giving a veneer of legitimacy to the suspicion and intolerance people feel toward terrorists and those linked in their mind with terrorism. As minorities, Arab Muslims have long been marginalized in the West and faced prejudice and discrimination based upon stereotypes and misunderstanding, but in the wake of 9-11 this has grown and discrimination and persecution has become more open and hostile. Much of the prejudice that has emerged has had little basis in reality, founded on misinterpretation of facts in the media and expressed in lieu of more positive or cathartic responses to the attacks. 

Orientalism, in addition to minority minimilization, contributes to the distorted perception of Middle Easterners. The sweeping generalization and oversimplification of people of diverse race, nationality and faith, combined with limited interaction with individuals of Middle Eastern descent, make it easy for people to jump to conclusions based solely on negative emotions. Most people consider the terms Arab and Muslim to be synonymous, oblivious to the fact that Arabs are an ethnic group, Muslims are a religious group, millions of Arabs are not Muslim and most Muslims are not Arab. Add to that that Arabs and Muslims are further diversified by race and nationality, and any terrorists among are a tiny minority from extreme fundamentalist sects that are not recognized by the leaders of Islam--and are typically driven by political agendas incorporating religious intolerance. Because Islam is written and taught in its original language, Arabs and Muslims are commonly united by Arabic language. 

It is a very small, very radical segment of a very large, very diverse and very complicated heirarchy of race, nationality, ethnicity and faith that produces terrorists, and those are just a fraction of all terrorists. The ignorance of Orientalism is mirrored in other cultures, among them the view of Imperialism that Al'Queda fanatics hold of all Westerners. It is insane to let the world become hostage to a clash between ignorant and arrogant prejudices. People need to learn to deal with problems they have in life without trying to point the finger of blame at someone else, because lashing out at one's imagined "enemies" will only provoke more ill will and violence. Ignorance can only be battled by thought, knowledge, wisdom and action, and in that order. It takes people willing to stop and think to acquire knowledge about the world that is true, and it is only by dealing with real people in the real world that we can gain the wisdom to determine what information is worthy to be called knowledge, and then we need to act in ways that show respect and responsability for what is true and essential in order to live in this world in peace. 


It has been intesting seeing how the terrorism issue affects people's views of stereotyping and racial profiling. Many of the arguments presented seem very compelling and rational. Clearly, profiling is a very useful diagnostic and predictive tool in managing crime, but it is also just a final and reinforcing stage in the self-fulfilling prophesy arising from prejudical thinking, discrimination and stereotyping. The true defining influences are things like oppression, minimilization, marginalization, deprivation of opportunity and dignity, and these circumstantial and environmental factors are what motivate crime and terrorism. Crime is the result of an individual lashing out at the system or defying it in order to obtain the resources he or she requires. Terrorism is actually a socio-political phenomenon. Because it is so common for people to be marginalized and oppressed as a group, based on ethnic or racial origins, individuals who resort to terrorism as a way of pursuing their political agenda will naturally be from that ethnic or racial group, or a group that is related to or sympathetic toward the oppressed group's cause. Because of 9/11, it has become common for people to think of terrorists as Muslims. True, there are Muslims who are directly and indirectly involved in terrorism. What many people pay less attention to is how much of that terrorism is directed against other Muslims, as between Suni and Shiite Muslims. There are also Catholic terrorists affiliated with the IRA devoted to the liberation of North Ireland from British rule. Terrorism is a facet of politics in the area of war that is just one of the methods for pursuing a rebellion. Just of the top of my head, I can remember a group of "terrorists" who had themselves a little tea party at Britian's expense in Boston a few hundred years ago.

As long as there are groups who dominate national and international affairs, there will be groups who employ terrorist tactics and methods to simply upset the status quo. Seriously, declaring war on innocent civilians in order to strike out at the Establishment, is a poor way to gain support or sympathy for a cause, but it is absolutely guaranteed to inspire fear, sow distrust and undermine the confidence and integrity of all society. To do it, you have to be absolutely convinced that the system as it stands is intolerable in its entire construction. What a terrorist is really saying, when he blows himself up in a sidewalk cafe, taking dozens or hundreds of innocents with him, is that everyone is guilty for perpetuating a system that is unfair and exploitive. They are declaring war on life as we know it. I find it surprising that this does not cause more people to stop and think.


I feel that, as the one nation that champions the values of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, the US should favor those who are oppressed, the individuals who do not fit in where they were born. Poverty, ignorance and oppression thrive in the absence of opportunity, so it should be expected that those seeking opportunity are fleeing poverty, ignorance and oppression. But, new opportunity is created by those who are motivated to make the most of the opportunities they are given. 
	
The same approach should be taken in other areas too. Workers are plenty, and they should not compete for work. There is always more work needing to be done, and those who can do a job should call on those who do not have work to come watch, listen and learn how to do a new job. Opportunity should not be carefully limited and milked for profit. Opportunity should be seized at every instant, no man should stand idle when there are people in need. Helping each other meet our needs is the whole purpose of civilization, and any society that forgets that is uncivilized. Believe me, I know!


On any day, at any time, a person will be confronted with a peice of news that challenges or changes the assumptions he or she currently has about some aspect of the world or even life itself. These moments come as a result of spotting a headline in the newspaper, turning on the television and catching a news report, or even browsing the internet. In many cases, these revelations catch people unprepared and that can make it difficult for individuals to confront the news with all of their wits about them. For this reason, people are often at the mercy of the integrity and responsability of the services that provide the information that people base their understanding of the world upon. The foundations for people's understanding of the world is provided in part by direct experience and the exchange of ideas on an interpersonal level, between friends and family members. That foundation is extended and reinforced by education. For many people, the nature of reality is determined by the kind of education they are exposed to, and can include vastly different religious and philosophical influences. Thus, as a group, humanity is possessed of widely differing beliefs and assumptions about what is real, true and important, and these differences contribute to misunderstandings and miscommunications on many levels.

It is the capacity for these differing viewpoints that makes it important for individuals to be able to recognize and understand the factors that influence credibility. The single most important being peoples' desire to preserve their own beliefs and assumptions about reality. In assessing books, newspapers, magazines, television programs and news services, movies, the Internet, and the endless flood of advertising that drives commerce, the first thing an individual needs to be able to do is determine what sort of audience the material is intended for, and what purpose it serves. It is an old saying that knowledge is power, and knowledge is based on information, so it follows that those who are interested in power will also have an interest in controlling information.

As a result, one way to begin determining the objectivity of an information source is to ask who is paying the costs. Newspapers and magazines are sold to the public but their publishers make most of their money through the sale and publication of advertisements. Television shows are also paid for through advertising. Television network news is provided in part in exchange for broadcasting rights, and in some cases enhanced through government funding, but again, since the networks' costs are paid through advertising, network news is also liable to be influenced by sponsorship. News services are subject to a number of regulations that are intended to keep them objective and responsible, and in competing with each other, there is an element of peer review built in, but they are also under some pressure to avoid offending their sponsors.

Corporate and political sponsors can influence information sources in other ways, so money is not the only thing to consider. Business and government exists on many different levels, locally, nationally, and internationally, and whenever their spheres of operation significantly overlap or overshadow the community a news outlet serves, there can be more subtle and indirect influence on an information source or provider. Put simply, the individuals who constitute a news service are also members of a community; anything that powerfully influences that community will also have a powerful influence on the news services established from that community. So, it is important to consider the community an information source is based in, and the corporate or political affiliations it may have.

Ultimately, these initial steps help to determine what sort of bias might exist in those providing information, and how strong that bias may be. The next step would be to determine how much objectivity is possible. Newspaper and magazine articles are usually the work of an individual writer working under the supervision of an editorial staff. Television news can originate with an individual reporter or be developed by a reporting staff including reporters, researchers, editors and producers. Thus, these information sources benefit from having more than one person contributing to the information and the final form it is presented in. Than generally reduces the amount of personal bias that might influence the report or article. Whatever bias remains would most likely be consistent with the known bias of the information provider. Books and Internet blogs can be more difficult to assess, because the reader has little or no idea of who contributed to the material. In both cases, these authors benefit from circumstances where the material is controlled ultimately by its creator.

Because the average reader is confronted by information in its final form, and is not in a position to research the source, the most effective and essential thing of all is to be able to read critically and recognize biases in the writing itself. It is important to be able to read what is written and be able to analyze why it was written, what purpose it serves, what message it presents and how comprehensively it is presented. Objective writing will be balanced and attempt to address all logical concerns that can be derived from the material. Good subjective writing will attempt to provide enough details to allow the reader to reconstruct an event or argument in their own head and analyze the information in order to determine for themselves what conclusions can be reached. Biased writing will generally offer only one supportable outcome, avoiding or obscuring any issues that might challenge the writer's assumptions.

One way to recognize lies and deception is if the writing seems selfish or self-serving, beneficial only to a chosen few, because anything that is truly good for one human being will be good for all human beings. Instances where a writer is trying to challenge conventional thinking or established beliefs will always be tricky. Most people are tempted to dismiss the unorthodox out of hand, but an objective reader still has to look at the material and consider its merits based on logic and objectivity. People have a known tendency to hold onto ideas even in the face of proof to the contrary, and it would be foolish to assume that the ideas held sacred today are any more perfect than the ideas held sacred by any group of people in history.

Ultimately, information is what we use to orient ourselves in and navigate through life, and life is constantly changing. Life is full of cycles, things that repeat, so much of human knowledge is useful wisdom that will have recurring benefits and that people should value. Life is also full of mysteries, and in order for people to grow, they need to be willing and able to change enough to understand those mysteries and pass on the most useful information they can. Most important of all, life is full of misery, and the only way for people to be spared from unnecessary suffering is for them to share information wisely and unselfishly.
   

What differentiates the act of simply grouping people from the act of stereotyping? How can stereotyping effect group relations? Give an example of a stereotype you find in your everyday life. Comment on the experiences of your classmates--are they the same or different from yours, and how?
 
Grouping is an activity that comes instinctively and automatically to people. It is part of a filtering process that allows us to make sense of our universe. Anything can serve as criteria for grouping, but because this is a perceptual-interpretive process, differences and similarities in physical characteristics are the most prevalent. As we learn and grow, we also associate ideas and experiences with the items in our cognitive inventory. We give values to people, places and things based on personal experience, inherited attitudes and beliefs, and assumptions. Part of our ability to form instant impressions and make immediate judgements is based upon preconception--ideas we have formed previously. Stereotyping is the result of reaching conclusions based on limited observation or information--often inaccurate or unreliable information. The thing that really differentiates the act of grouping people from the act of stereotyping is thinking. When grouping, you are engaged in a thinking process, perceiving and interpreting raw information, but when stereotyping you are simply calling up some predigested conclusion to save the time, effort and attention required to make an accurate and appropriate judgement. It is called "jumping to conclusions" and it is something we do so much that we rarely even notice it. What this means for social relations is disastrous. By assuming that we "know" what we are confronting when we encounter another human being, we actually fail to perceive that individual as a person. We not only take him or her for granted, we automatically dismiss them as being worthy of greater consideration.

Ten years ago, I would have dropped this class before publically sharing the information that follows. Because of the prejudice and discrimination transsexuals face--largely due to stereotyping--to share what I am about to, in a conventional classroom, would literally put my life at risk. Given the nature of this class, however, I believe it is an important contribution and one that I expect to provoke a great deal of thought.

One of the most painful experiences I've dealt with, something I deal with on a constant basis every day, is the reactions that women have to me. When they look at me, they see a tall, heavyset man with deep-set eyes and a grim expression. Based upon my appearance, most women automatically perceive me as a threat and shy away from me. If I encounter women walking down the street, they usually try to cross the street to avoid me. There is no way for them to know that I am transgendered, that in my own mind I am female, and that it is absolutely inconceivable for me to threaten or harm another woman without the most extreme provocation. Because of the way my brain is wired, the way my mind works, I understand instantly what they are thinking when they look at me and flinch. It is agonizing. Being judged, feared and even hated on the basis of my appearance by the group I identify with most strongly is absolutely unbearable. It is emotionally shattering and draining, is forces me to confront the discrepancy between my physical form and self image in a way that undermines my identity and self confidence. The alternative would be to go through a process to alter my physical appearance so that it is closer to my self image (since the reverse is not possible--trying is what drives more than half of all transsexuals to commit suicide by the age of 30) but that puts me at risk of being viewed according to the transsexual stereotype and facing discrimination up to and including assault, rape and murder. Transsexuals have the highest suicide, assault and murder rates per capita than any other demographic in the world. The process of transition from one gender to another is highly visible, and even the most successful results can not erase one's history as a member of the opposite sex. Ultimately, a transsexual has to trade living one type of lie for living another type of lie--all because the typical man or woman can not comprehend the birth defect we are victims of.

I have done a little more looking around and have not been able to find a credible source for the statistics I quoted in my initial post. It may be that I picked them up from books I read, or that they get repeated in TS forums without references to the original sources. Many sites actually comment on the lack of reliable statistical data on transsexual assault and mortality rates as well as difficulty finding accurate media reporting of TS related incidents. The TS community has begun publishing this information, but it is considered to be too small of a sample for meaningful statistical interpretation. Until I can find where I got the statistics I quoted, I will refrain from presenting them as facts.

I have to agree that one of the best approaches in life is to take people as they come. I find it interesting how some groups can embrace or even create a stereotype as a kind of common identity and yet remain a collection of individuals that cannot be defined by that stereotype. I remember the high school cliques, and I was considered to be universally odd because I could slip into any group and fit in, but by doing this I could not be defined by any one stereotype. What I did was very simple, I shared in the groups' interests and participated with the other members and that understanding and appreciation made me acceptable in groups that normally could not tolerate each other. Appearances play a big part in a group identity, and in creating stereotypes, but for me the ideal situation was one where the "group colors" were ones that could be put on or taken off at will. A "look" is an outward expression of commitment or investment in a group. The best way to escape being stereotyped by grouping is to find ways to be active in many different groups. At least, that's been my experience...
 

One of the things a child needs most from his or her family is respect, and while that often seems like something we can take for granted, the reality of life is that sometimes it is neccessary to ask for people to respect us and our beliefs to get even our family members to show us the respect we deserve. A lot of the time we fight with our families because it does not occur to us to come straight out and ask for the respect and support we need. It is also important to show appreciation for the respect and support we have been given. Failing to show respect or appreciation for our families is often the thing that causes family members to be skeptical and unsupportive.


I would say that the tendency to concentrate into isolated ethnic groups is a natural instinct for most people. It stems from the desire for a common identity or a desire to belong, and apparently the easiest way for a person to fit in is to not stand out. It is an almost universal aversion to being different. It is the differences between us that become the focus of conflict, as immature as it is. The ability to single a person out of a group gives the group power or justifies decisions that would otherwise be unjustifiable. There are no human traits that are immune to discrimination. Height, weight, color, sex, intelligence, class, nationality, regionality, whatever it is that makes an individual unique can be used to shut them out of the group. Racial discrimination gets a lot of attention, but what about gender-identity discrimination? When a person who has female psychology and male anatomy acts normal (that is, dressing and acting feminine) and gets raped and murdered, that is an example of extreme prejudice and discrimination. The fact is, being different is enough to get a person killed. The reality is, civilization is founded on an impulse that encourages intolerance and breeds fear of individuality. 


It has taken generations to break down the social prejudice of the slave era. Each new generation of Blacks and Whites is raised in an environment defined by lingering prejudice and emerging enlightenment, responding to the lingering injustices in positive and negative ways that inform the next generation's prejudices. But again, Blacks are not alone in being disadvantaged minorities, they are not the only racial or ethnic group that has been isolated from "mainstream society" in ghettoes, or resentfully integrated into "suburbia". Blacks continue to struggle with poverty and discrimination because poverty and discrimination tend to be self-sustaining and mutually reinforcing. 

While this may sound like a discriminatory statement, Blacks continue to struggle with the System mostly because it is not their System. The government and industry of the United States was created by a specific group with the specific purpose of supporting and promoting that group. It is a privileged system and while it's laid out on paper as ideals and laws, it is made real by people who do discriminate and are prejudiced--sometimes negatively against people of other races or ethinc origins, but primarily positively toward their own race and ethnic group. It is perfectly reasonable to point out this selfishness on the part of Whites, and it is not entirely enviable, but it is human. A better system can only be created by people who hold less exclusive views of people.


As others have pointed out, the practice of exploiting people to create wealth is not limited to slavery. In fact, the very concept of money devalues people. People are not paid what they are worth--there isn't even a reliable method of determining the worth of people. Economics are based on the laws of supply and demand, and wherever there are people there is an infinite potential for work and an almost infinite variety of jobs that people can do, but economically, the value of a given worker is based upon the demand for the product of his work. Money has no intrinsic value. It is simply a medium of exchange and the accumulation of wealth actually upsets the natural balance of supply and demand. Wealth, in the form of capital, is used to manipulate the market, to stimulate production of selected goods for which there is a significant demand. It can also be used to discourage the production of goods, or their distribution, to manipulate the market value of those goods in order to create additional wealth. The market is a collective or cooperative resource management system, and through industry, people are translated into resources. The exploitation of people is simply a fact of life. Anyone who has amassed great wealth is "guilty" of exploiting people. That is our system.

As sort of an extension, people are what is known as a renewable resource, and those are best exploited to gain access to and control of limited resources, like land, gold, plutonium, and so on. Some resources fall in the middle, like wood, water or food--they are renewable, but at any given time there is a limited supply. Finally, people are among the few things that can become exclusive resources, like an actor or an athlete, a great scientist or an enlightened world leader. There is a great demand for people of extraordinary character, and becoming such an individual takes a great deal of effort, but those who succeed in meeting that demand succeed in becoming indispensable. If I were to suggest a way to undo the injustices of the past, I would recommend putting more emphasis on demanding such people from the world, and adjusting the System to encourage anyone who works honestly to meet that demand.


It simply is not enough to have good intentions. It is essential that good intentions be followed up by intelligent and responsible actions, and that includes being able to determine if anything good can even come from one's intentions. It includes being honest enough to be honest about your intentions. From the beginning, the presence of aboriginals in America was a serious kink in the plans of every colonist, imperialist or immigrant to this land, and if it had not been for the fact that the natives knew the land so well, they would have simply been enslaved on the spot. Many such attempts at total domination were made, and the result was genocide. Most people came to America with good intentions, but even then the system was bigger than any group or individual, and that is what a nation ultimately is--a system, a machine made out of people. The system had to weigh the value of components that contributed to its growth and maintenance and those that did not, and like the trees, the Native Americans were mowed down to make way for more farms for "good, American families" to keep the system going. The only time the machine has a conscience is when people with a conscience take responsability for the machine's actions.

Socities follow trends and trends are ultimately based on the decisions and actions of individuals reacting to each other. In order for anyone to survive in the world, they have to be aware of what the world around them is, how it's organized and what makes it move. If you don't understand how a bull moves, you cannot get out of its way. Native Americans face the same choices everyone else does, but with somewhat clearer pros and cons. Their traditional way of life has been under attack for over two hundred years, and the point of that spear has always been technology. It is arguable that Native Americans had developed a more evolved way of life, a more successful adaptation to their environment because they were not required to develop technology to survive in it. Their approach to living was more sophisticated and grounded in nature, better adapted to the world that humans evolved in. Europeans were not as well adapted. Their approach to survival was to change the world to suit them, which sets in motion a chain reaction that results in climate altering technology no one is responsable or mature enough to control or limit short of world altering calamity. Native Americans lived on this continent for tens of thousands of years without so much as bruising the environment, but in two hundred years European descendants have devestated the environment. This is the product of profiteering consumerism out of control, a trend that has been fueled by insatiable, institutional greed. The Native Americans were literally shoved out of the way and forced to watch as Europeans invaded, like a plague of locusts, taking whatever they desired, preserving only what served their own interests and conserving vestiges of unspoiled frontier at the last minute in delinquent after-thought. Native Americans "stood in the way of progress" but they were the only ones who were smart enough to question this notion of "progress" and call it what it was--insane. Even today, Native Americans look at the rest of us thinking that the inmates have taken over the asylum, and are very skeptical of being infected with our madness of aggressive consumerism and opportunistic capitalism. But it is not technology that is evil. It is not industry that is corrupt. Tools are just tools, and with wisdom and maturity they can be used to make the world a better home for people to live in. Most people have the common sense to respect the land they live on and to call foul when they catch people treating the land around them with contempt. Most Native Americans can look at the typical American and understand that we're not bad people, we're just misguided and immature. We think that America is still Beautiful, that we are all Free, and this is a land of Liberty and Opportunity, and can not even see that we have been born into a kind of slavery that we cheerfully embrace because we believe what we have been told. In truth, Nature had been replaced with a System, and what you can get out of life now depends on where you are or where you can get to in the System. For all the ways that people can be controlled, exploited and manipulated by the System, the System itself is dependant upon the participation of people with the right skills and abilities making up its various organs and limbs. Native Americans can participate as much as anyone else, but unlike most people, they can bring the benefits of a different perspective with them and thus stand a chance of seeing what to change and how to change it in order to System more sane. In order for the rest of us to accomplish this, we have to wake up, wise up, and educate ourselves beyond the scope "required" of us and choose to apply ourselves to reforming the System--resisting the urge to attack it for the many ways it has harmed us.



In what ways do you think we can change the mindsets or attitudes of those who hold exclusive views of people?  What impact will such change have on our society?

I really took my time answering this question, because even with the best intentions no one has the right to impose a system of thought or action on anyone against their will. Ironically, that is exactly what has happened to all of us as we were born into this world. It is in some ways no different than being born into slavery, in the sense that we come into the world having no say in the system that will govern our lives, and we spend our most vulnerable years being programmed to become obedient citizens and uphold the status quo. As children we learn that the double-standard is pretty much the rule in virtually all situations, and while there seem to be thousands of problems in the world, the one thing all problems have in common is apathy and indifference. The older generation has already been through the school of hard knocks and become bitter, skeptical, intolerant, or what have you--the end result being that most people have given up on trying to make the world a better place and turned their attention to finding a better place in the world. While most people are busy pushing and shoving each other aside trying to "get their share" no one is taking responsability for the world we share. Now, I understand that self interest is important for people's well-being, but our selfishness as a species has become blinding. It isn't enough that we're consuming the world's renewable resources faster than the world can cope with, or that we're depleting the world's limited resources as fast as we can dig them up, but we also pile up mountains of debt for our children to conduct wars with nations we've given up trying to be friends with.

People need to wake up and realize that no one is going to fix the world for them. The people who have seized control of our world are abusing the authority they've been given, ignoring the responsabilites we've entrusted them with. I'm not just talking about our presidents and prime ministers, here; I am talking about the people who are given authority in all walks of life that are exploiting the system for their own benefit. I'm even talking about the customers who abuse the courtesy of employees to get special attention or service. Every single abuse of the public trust is passed on to another human being, and while people are complaining about how they are being mistreated, each person who uses their misfortune as an excuse to abuse the public trust is helping to destroy the world we live in. Not all at once, not today, but almost every day, somewhere, for someone, it manifests as robbery, assault, rape, murder, That is how it works. The end of the world comes one person at a time. Every time a person dies, the world loses something irreplacable.

There have always been those who believe that the world would be a better place without some people in it, and there have always been people willing to kill anyone who gets in their way. We have all been one of those people, at some point in our lives, for some part of our lives. The worst possible human being exists withing all of us, as does the best. We can choose to understand this, and we can choose what sort of human being we will allow ourselves to be. We can choose to be weak, we can choose to be insignificant, or we can choose to be powerful and extraordinary. Those choices are ours, and we make them by doing what those choices call for. But, no one is going to make the right choice if no one cares. The only thing that people need, really, is something that most people have--or can get access to--and the only thing they need to do is stop taking it for granted. It's called a mirror. Take a good look, because that is who is going to change the world--or not--and that is who you have to fight to succeed.


As true as it is that some people are incapable of valuing things they have not paid the price for, the fact is that free money is never free. There is terrible cost for being on the public dole, that is immediately evident when you walk into a welfare community. Being on public assistance or living on a reservation, the cost of that free income or housing is having to live in poverty. It provides just enough to survive but not enough to advance. While many assistance programs include job training and placement programs, the jobs one can qualify for rarely provide better incomes. Taken in the context of the way people on state or fedral assistance are forced to jump through hoops just to get food, clothing, housing or basic medical services, it is hard to imagine a more discouraging or disheartening life style. My experience is that people who are subjected to this tend to have little appreciation for the system that provides for them (the rest of society for the most part) because the system has no appreciation for them. Part of this comes from having someone else decide which of your needs deserve to be met, or what sort of help you deserve to get. To simply exist in the world requires more time and resources than an individual can provide for themselves. It simply is not possible to advance if you can not start out on an even footing with the rest of the world, and people in poverty rarely do. The best most impoverished families can do is to work twice as hard as everyone else for half as much in the hope of giving their children the opportunities the parents never had. No one can choose what family, race, community, culture or nation to be born into, or the advantages and disadvantages that they have as an accident of birth. It's human nature to say that "no child shall be left behind" but it's reality that some children get born with one hell of a head start. Just knowing you got dealt a bad hand in life is enough to make you pretty unhappy, but when you also realize that the deck was stacked against you that unhappyness can become something much uglier. Poverty is a disease that infects civilization, and until civilization can overcome poverty it will continue to be sick and just a bit deranged. Investing the profits of the casinos in the welfare of the tribes is one of the most proactive and promising solutions I have ever seen a community as a whole attempt. I am sure that there are many examples where individuals squandered the money given to them, but that's just human nature. After a long famine, we have an urge to feast because anything that relieves poverty for even a moment is something to celebrate. It's the long term benefits that matter most, the few who spend wisely, the few who get better educations and jobs, and the few who reinvest in the community. Ultimately, the people in this world who are the most valuable are the people who invest in the betterment of people. The entire secret to success is contained in a simple Biblical quote: "Give a man a fish, and you feed him for today. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime." 

Let's be honest, the biggest problem with any hand-out program is the fall out from exploitation. There are indeed people out there who will take whatever is not nailed down. A certain pair of continents come to mind as examples. I would also like to point out that, while there are symantic differences between "criminals" and "rebels" the defining characteristic of any society's na'er-do-wells is that they are usually people who, feeling that they are not properly represented or established in society, do not respect the establishments of society. It is not necessary to be in poverty to be a criminal, or a terrorist, or what have you, but being in poverty puts you a lot closer to the fringe of society where you have more to gain by bucking the system than you do by participating in it.

As long as there are people out there who have better prospects working against society, there will be people content to exploit or disrupt it. The parasitic element of our society is created by our own institutions, in the way they are organized, the way the operate, and the way they perpetuate imbalances in the status quo. To see who is at fault, you simply look at who benefits from the status quo the most consistently. Crime and welfare have been accepted by those people as an acceptable operational reality of industry, economics and politics. The question everyone needs to ask is, who has the right to determine privilege?

The truth is, it's not based on who does the most work, or even who does the most important work. In both cases, the poor do. Granted, there are some very specialized fields that have great value, and the individuals who perform those functions are handsomely rewarded, but it does not always follow that a highly valued worker does the most important work. Any job can become "worthless" if enough people are skilled at doing it--that's simple "supply and demand" and it applies to general labor and brain surgery. Teachers, who perform an essential social function, are valued proportionately to the perceived value or significance of the students they instruct. Yes, other factors like tenure and experience apply, but a gifted grade-school teacher is easily overlooked in favor of a competent tenured professor at an elite university. Which brings up the second question everone needs to ask, who has the right to determine the value of my contribution to society?

In both cases, the answer should be "Me". Any other answer ought to show you what's wrong with the system. Living is the only priveledge we truly have, and we have the responsability of making our own contribution to the world valuable. Anything that distorts or denies that is part of the problem.

If you want more in life, you have to be more, you have to do more; you can't just keep doing the same thing you have been doing all along. You are going to have to do something you don't want to do--because if you wanted to do it, you would have already tried. But, you can never know if you'll like doing something until you try, and in some cases until you succeed. This is all commen sense stuff, but it's amazing how easy it is for people to avoid even thinking these simple thoughts when they need to, or taking it to heart. And really, all the good advice in the world is worthless if a person is not listening, and it can't be used unless a person can take it upon themselves to use it. Life really does not have a purpose if you don't life your life on purpose. People really do a lot better in the world when they act like they have a good reason for being here.
 
Blissful ignorance of the world is a handicap, however pleasant it might seem. An open mind should always be guarded by open eyes.

I understand how you feel about the world of business. Beyond the most basic necessities, "chasing the dollar" is a very unfulfilling way to spend life. With so much emphasis on making money, particularly in business, it becomes too easy to lose sight of why we are working in the first place. I work very, very hard on creative pursuits that do not make a dime--much harder than I work on the job--so my problem is not an unwillingness to work; I find most of the work out there to be an obstacle to creativity, a drain on humanity. I am really not cut out to be a cog in a machine, and that is what the jobs I can get make me feel like. This class has emphasized just how much a person has to kneel down and conform to the customs and practices of business, how important it is to satisfy other people's expectations. It emphasizes how unimportant I am, as an individual. I understand it all in the context of doing business, but it's hard to swallow in the context of living. I don't mind being used, to a point, but I don't much care to feel like I am being used, and I refuse to be abused by the system, any system. I am very uncomfortable with companies that presume that they own you in exchange for paying you a wage or salary. I know most people think that money is superior to barter, but both systems of exchange are dependant upon assigning a fair value to the production of goods and services. The value of the dollar fluctuates, and over the past hundred years has plummeted through inflation, but the cost of an hour's work is still an hour spent working. The true value is in what is accomplished, and how hard it is to accomplish--and only the person doing the work knows that! The day people stopped setting the value of their own work was the day that people lost their independence and freedom. When there is always someone else deciding the value of your work and your worth in the community, what assurance is there that the decision will be fair?

