To Thine Own Self Be True 

Or, Know Thyself!

Feb 6, 2006, 12:05 AM [from deviantART journal]

I don't expect this to be a particularly deep or inspiring journal entry. In part, it was just time to put something else up on my page. It occurs to me, however, that there is an obvious transgender-slash-self-absorbed thread emergent in my journal. Maybe it's time I addressed that. I look at this journal feature pretty much as my journal. The point of writing a journal, really, is to have a place where you never have to lie to yourself, or live up to the assumptions imposed upon you from the outside. It's a place to be naked, natural and unashamed. To that extent, I feel free to write anything that comes to mind, and I really don't care that this is ultimately open to public perusal.

However, just because I am willing to allow you to peek into my thoughts, that does not necessarily mean that you will understand me. You might see the word transgender and form some impression of me based on that. Me, I am not entirely sure that the label communicates any significant fact or truth about me. I am not the wrong gender, as the word implies. I do not subscribe to the belief that who I am is derived from what I am... or rather, I do not accept that the physical takes precedence over the spiritual or the mental. If you asked me what I am, I would be forced to tell you that I am a girl who happens to be a boy. A female that happens to be male.

That ought to be confusing. Believe me, it confused the hell out of me for years! I cannot make it unconfusing for you. I have spent years trying to accomplish this task with the people I know and love most. My family and friends all persist in thinking of me as a defective boy. Well, the fact is, I am a boy. I've learned to accept that and live with it. Unfortunately, the truth is--has always been and will always be--that I am a girl. It's a paradox, and so am I, and I've learned to accept that and to live with it. If you read this and decide that I'm a guy and you will treat me as such, well... I face the same thing every day of my life, every time I encounter another human being.

That is preferable to trying to make you understand what it is like to be me... to understand me enough to understand me. I say this because I have alienated too many people by trying to put my subjective experiences with this into words... because the words speak of a hell of bitter hopelessness and torment, and because suffering is personal and what I suffer cannot be compared to what another human being has suffered in his or her life. If some of those words leak out in my journal, please forgive me... but wounds must bleed a bit to cleanse themselves and allow for healing. You can empathize, or not, but let it pass. That's not what's important.

What is important is what brought me here... what lies at the very heart of every effort I've ever made to express myself. Alexandrea Virginia Morgan does not legally, or materially, exist, but that is who I am. That is the person that revealed herself to me through my art over the course of my life. For a long time, she was the perfect muse. It was only as I was beginning to find myself as an artist that I realized that she was the product of my unconscious search for my own reflection. The face and form I longed to see to confirm my own existence. Can you imagine what that was like, when I realized that the girl of my dreams was in truth the girl I dreamed of being?

I've always loved the way that the Internet has allowed me to be me, where I am truly represented solely by the expression of myself. I came to deviantART to represent myself, to present myself in my art... because in a very real sense, my art is me. I wish I was a better artist, that I could make myself more easily and more accurately seen, but I think I'll save my wishes for something truly miraculous and just work on becoming the best artist I can learn to be. But, as I value the truth so much, I cannot allow myself to obscure the ugly side of it. I am, by necessity, also someone else. Someone who, in a very real sense, is my creator, my author... a man who owns me and yet does not own himself. A man who, by the fact of his existence, obscures the truth of mine. A man who can only live because I do not want to die.

Ah, this just scratches the surface of the paradox... but I do wonder. If I introduced you to him would he eclipse me in your eyes? If it meant that you had to accept the reality and truth of magic and miracles, would you welcome the possibility of me manifesting myself, my true self, in the flesh? Interesting questions, and I am curious how people would answer them... but I don't expect you to. This is just, well... my own version of the Matrix. It started as the feeling that something was wrong, not so much with the world in general, but certainly with my world. But I can talk about that next time.

This Too Is The Art...

* * *

Opening Thoughts...	

Aug 17, '06 6:20 PM [from Multiply Journal]

I can almost picture my dream come true. It takes a miracle, and it might even be magical, but what else could you count on to make a fantasy real? I mean, just because magic, like myself, might not actually exist, that doesn't mean it can be written off. If a ghost of a girl like me can dream, even write those dreams down, then maybe there is a place and time when the things that fill our fantasies must be realized. Maybe, like me, they can still be true. Of course, I have something of a vested interest in that being the case. For the rest of you, well, I can at least ask for the suspension of disbelief.

I know that won't be easy. In fact, I am certain I am going to stretch that almost beyond endurance. It will even break at some point, or at several points along the way. I know it did for me. The funny thing is, time keeps going on. If you just keep going on, even dreams torn asunder can mend. It's okay. The other side of it is, if you stay with me, if you hear me out--if by some wild, wonderful chance, you actually come to believe me, to believe in me--the implications might even scare you. That's okay too. At times, the implications terrify me.

You get used to it.

That is really the most frightening thing. A person can get used to just about anything.

I got used to the idea that people expected me to be a boy. I did not have a clue what that meant initially, and by the time I had enough experience to comprehend it I was in no position to argue that they had it all wrong.

I can't tell you where I got the notion that I was really a girl. I was encouraged to think of myself as a boy and to look up to male role models, so there really is no explanation for my predisposition toward feminine modes of thought and expression. I was discouraged from behaving in ways I found most natural and compelled, often by force, to think and act in ways that were alien and peculiar to me.

Of course, the whole matter was complicated by the fact that I was passed around like a hot potato, an unwanted and inconvenient consequence of a failed marriage. I came to think of my failure to think and act in the expected ways as the reason for an unending string of rejections and abandonments.

I wanted, most of all, to be accepted for who I was so I did try to assert myself at first. As a result, I brought one of the most traumatic and crushing rejections of my childhood down upon myself.

I can hardly remember now what really happened the day my preference for the company of girls over boys provoked a confrontation. Instead of joining the boys in the kiddie pool, I was playing on the jungle gym with a girl. When they taunted me over it, I defied them by declaring that I would rather be a girl.

What I remember is that things got rough from there. Violent. I remember being dragged into the pool and nearly drowned, and the faces that flash through my memory include my foster father... to this day I don't know if he took part in "setting me straight" or if he came out to rescue me from the other boys. What I can remember is that I was too terrified after that day to admit my true feelings to anyone. Anyone who "corrected" me about my behavior was participating in the conspiracy that was revealed to me so traumatically that day.

But the final blow came a year or two later, when I was settled into my new adoptive family. I had been thrilled to discover the encyclopedia collection my new family had, with it's extended children's resource books. In one of them I encountered my first anatomical illustrations and finally learned what distinguished boys from girls.

I could not have been more severely wounded if I had stumbled upon a loaded gun.

I can not describe the sense of despair I felt, nor how horrifying it is to be betrayed so profoundly by one's own body. In a desperate search for some ray of hope, some possibility of redemption, I began to study in earnest the subject of human biology and the science that underscored it. To put the matter bluntly, the problem was a lot more complicated than plucking the stem off the apple. Fortunately, my introduction to science was through honest writing that admitted that science had barely begun to explain how the world and everything worked. There was a great deal that was not known, and thus I had room to hope.

Because science did not hold all the answers, I also looked in other realms for possible solutions. I quickly determined that the sort of thing I was looking for, a physical metamorphosis, was most likely to be found in the form of magic or a miracle. A few years later, around the age of seven, I added science and medicine back to the list of possible solutions when I first heard of a person having a sex change.

Of course, magic, miracles and sex changes were not things a small boy could really talk to people about, especially when he was absolutely terrified of being beaten and abandoned if anyone ever realized he was not normal. In fact, during the first seven or eight years I was with my new family, I spent most of my energy perfecting my cover as a happy, healthy supernumerary son. In the process, I managed to suppress my natural instincts so effectively that they would surprise me when they spontaneously emerged. I can think back to a thousand times in my middle childhood when I remarked to myself that I really ought to have been a girl... but alas I was a boy, and I needed to accept that.

Eventually, I did.

As I said, eventually you can get used to anything. Being a boy did not come naturally to me, however. It was a difficult and demanding role, but I was as dependent on my "cover" for survival as any spy. You have to believe that in order to live a lie and the only way to live a lie is to convince yourself that it is the truth. I explained away so many things, made so many excuses in order to shore up my "manhood". I told myself that everyone had questions about their identity, or "grass is greener" feelings about being the opposite sex. I looked at all the ways that boys and girls were alike, and pursued interests that were suitable for either sex. I was unconsciously striving for some middle ground, idealizing androgyny and preserving my own identity through a sort of "tomboyish adventurism". In truth, I was sort of the ultimate tomboy, a girl who enjoyed all the liberties of a boy. I very nearly came to accept being a boy.

And then puberty began to loom on the horizon.

I could fill a book or two with the things that I struggled with as forces beyond my control warped me into the very antithesis of what my instincts and character insisted I was. But, these are just opening thoughts, an introduction to the first, and foremost, question of my life. At some point in life, everyone asks "who am I?" but what do you do when the answer conflicts with what you physically are? 

* * *

Like Smoke Upon the Water	

Sep 30, '06 2:22 AM [from Multiply Journal]

As a child, I took an early interest in reading. Of course, the things made available to a young child tend to fall under the category of Fairy Tales. Among the first books I remember reading was a collection of classic children's Fairy Tales. These were the original, scary versions, not the ones that Disney candy coated and gave happy endings to. I think I appreciated that. In my own experience, childhood was full of dark and dangerous corners, little cracks that young people could fall into and perish. Mixed in with this kind of harsh reality was the wonderful and fabulous worlds of myth and magic, and perhaps the seeds of my own damnation.

The story at the heart of my childhood is The Little Mermaid by Hans Christian Anderson. This was the story in which I found my first great epiphany. For one thing, it appealed to my feelings of metaphysical displacement, my longing to be transformed and welcomed into a world I could observe but never take part in. In a way, it explained things to me. The price the little mermaid paid to be a part of our world was her voice. A cruel price that denied her the ability to express herself and ultimately resulted in her death. But, the thing that was truly at stake, from the very beginning, was her immortal soul.

In the original tale, the little mermaid endured everything in the hope of attaining an immortal soul. For her, learning that she did not have an immortal soul was the kind of shock I had endured when I was confronted with the anatomical facts that distinguished boys from girls. That little mermaid and I, we had both basically been told the same thing. "You are not real." In our own ways, the mermaid and I both had to face the prospect of not being true. Our reactions were the same, asserting our willingness to do anything to prove that we were true, to save our souls, even if it killed us. The little mermaid allowed the sea witch to use her magic to turn her into a human. I set out to find something that would turn me into a girl.

Part of the price of magic is believing in magic. In the world we live in, that's not an easy thing to do. Believing in pretty much anything is almost impossible these days, it seems. It's discouraged on so many levels that at times it makes me suspicious. Expecting to get results that would be described by anyone who witnessed them as being magical, that is something else altogether. Most authorities would describe that as insane. Unfortunately, while I could see all of that, I had no other hope. Accepting reality required me to be someone I was not. Attempting to "not be" is something I do not recommend trying. Not even for the people you love. Nor for anything in the world. Absolutely not for the sake of your soul.

It is ironic. I can be like anyone I can imagine, but anything I can be derives from within me. I can be like a boy. I can play the part almost to perfection. But, it is just acting. When you cut to the heart of everything, I'm still a girl. When I get to the end of the day, and shrug off the persona I wear for everyone else's benefit, I revert to being me. When I have a nervous breakdown and everything I am crashes down around me, the only thing that survives to rebuild everything is me. Having been through all of these things many times over, I've learned that there is no other me. Since that is the only thing in my existence that I've been able to prove true, you will have to pardon me if I persist in searching for a way to show that truth to you. What you call magic, might not exist. What you call God, might not intervene. What you call impossible, might be ridiculously improbable. But I do not have the luxury of accepting these things.

These things, while helpful, are not really the solution to my problem. These things, if they could be used, would only put me in a position to face the real challenge that lies before me.

* * *

Re: Do you believe in magick? [posted to a forum on deviantART, Feb 2006]

This thread has grown to the point where I almost hesitate to contribute. I can only claim to have read half of it. My first thought, however, is that it doesn't matter how you spell it... it is how you define magic that matters first. It's pretty clear by this point, however, that people are never going to agree on a definition of magic, but I will posit a general theme: magic is a means or method of influencing reality in a non-material, non-mechanical way. The general idea is that there are ways of being or acting beyond the rational-linear material based principles accepted as scientifically viable. 

If you believe in the mind, the spirit or the soul, you are already on the side of magic. You might not support the concept of magic, but you are subscribing to the existence of invisible or intangible things as being real and powerful. Note, there is a distinction between the mind as I used it here and the mind as it is used in scientific and medical contexts. Speaking scientifically, the mind is the operating system and programs running in an active brain--in which consciousness is an illusion created by the activity of the brain and self awareness is the cruelest joke in all of nature. The ultimate lie. 

The next thing I'd like to point out is that there is a general flaw in the concept of Reality. Reality is not, scientifically, an absolute. In light of quantum mechanics, nothing exists in a concrete state until it is confronted explicitly and "measured". A simpler way of putting that is that "reality" is created by interaction, whether at the level of atomic particles or macroscopic entities like our selves. I like to put it this way, "Reality is created and sustained by participation." There are no absolute facts. All facts are a product of measure, and measure in natural terms is simply relational activity. Objective measure, which is the basis of all science, is a product of human invention and thus only as valid as the human beings who employ it. 

What could be more like magical thinking than imposing our own concepts and structures upon existence and calling that Reality?

Don't ask, "Do you believe in Magick?" You might as well ask, "Do you believe in ANYTHING AT ALL?" Because, the essence of magic (and it's an art, like music, so don't quibble about the spelling!) is belief. Unlike religious belief, which is properly called faith, magical belief is not passive. In wicca, the embodiments of divinity and the powers of creation are not idle figureheads playing power games with our minds. They can be entreated to actively intervene in the course of reality, in part because the underlying belief system does not exclude the possibility out of hand. A less daring individual might regretfully subscribe to a less demanding belief in "reality" and conclude that seemingly miraculous things can only happen when the necessary principles are scientifically described and harnessed mechanically (or electronically)... but for the average person science is as much a matter of faith as religion. The average person has neither the time nor the inclination to discover and understand the principles behind our technological marvels. 

The foundation of magic is this. You don't have to understand how it works in order for it to happen. You do have to know how to access and operate it to some degree, but that process is experiential and experimental. You grow into it. It's an art. 

Do you believe in Art?

It makes a difference when you approach the question from the perspective of necessity, and few have as great a need to find the path to true magic than those of us seeking literal transformation. I have seen my fill of charlatans and rationalists, enough to crush the hopes of all but the most determined. I can tell you this. There are things in this universe, this dream we all share, that defy explanation... that a rational person would bend over backwards to describe as madness or coincidence, and still I have not seen what you and I would call true magic. I do not believe that it is because there is no such thing as magic. Rather, it is because there are few things that happen which we are not able to explain... and that takes the magic out of it. These subjective experiences are mere snowflakes on the tip of the ice burg.

You do not have a choice, really, when it comes to believing in magic. Even in stage magic, you will find the essence of true magic... the mystery hidden in the experience of a profound illusion. When the girl is sawed in half, underneath the wonder and disbelief, there is a part of our psyche that whispers to us an explanation of the magic. Not the trick. No. The manner in which such a thing could actually be done if you went about it the right way. It is this part of us that functions in suspension of disbelief to make books and movies real to us. That allow us to glimpse the reality conveyed to us in the story.

That is the Art. Mind over Matter. Because all that matters is in the mind. I make no distinction between magic or miracle, because either term denies the truth of the power of the Art, and distracts us from the origin of that power. Our own creativity. People talk about demons and the devil and even God, lending them all the power and mystery, when in truth that power is ours until we give it to them. To quote myself, it really doesn't matter if we believe in Santa Clause. What matters is if Santa Clause believes in himself... and this same rule holds true for us and even our gods as well.

Do not worry. I speak not in desire of praise or attention, but only to encourage those who can believe to believe... to believe in a world in which a person like me can step out of the dreams in which I am exiled into this world. So, there in lies my own self interest, and beyond that I hope only to inspire others to discover and share their true selves. If my words carry the ring of truth or wisdom, then maybe I've finally passed the point where a person can only speak of the truth in obscuring metaphor and allusion.

I am always willing to share my insights and experiences with those who ask, and though I have ambitions to be a writer, I confess I have been hesitant to consider writing a book on this topic (though others have suggested it before). To be honest, there are places on the path of enlightenment where language fails you and everything you write sounds like the ravings of insanity... My notes and journals contain things that make even me stand wide eyed and wild haired in shock.

But, the one thing that makes me most cautious is this: At some point, in order to act in accordance with your beliefs, even a belief in the Truth if you can glimpse it, it becomes necessary to contemplate breaking rules. I find it interesting that a world that holds little faith in magic is so strongly organized to oppose the pursuit of magic. In many subtle and in many blatant ways, magic is outlawed. Today, it hides behind a mask of laughing disdain, but you will find many people and institutions both willing and determined to directly oppose any pursuit of magic directly out of fear that you will find it.

However, I can say this. If you are looking for magic, look within yourself. It is the hardest thing you will ever do, until you find it... and then, hardest of all, you must give it to yourself because no one else can give it to you and it cannot be taken--from you or by you. Believe me, there is no harder or more demanding task. If you ever suffer from the belief that magic is free, or easier than doing things the "hard" way, or that magic is somehow cheating... throw that thought away! Magic has a price. It requires you to be true to yourself, and it requires you to become whole. You have to survive facing your fears and doubts (and even the fears and doubts of those around you) and in the pursuit of magic those fears and doubts can take on a frightening life and reality of their own.

Ah... getting carried away here. How about this? If you're interested (anyone who reads this) just drop me a note. Anyone who wants to sort through tons of disturbing notes can get co-credit for whatever article or book can be made of it. This kind of stuff just pours out of me whenever it give it the least bit of attention. I really only meant to encourage those of you who do believe to examine those beliefs, strip them of their dogmatic limits and let them lead you to the truth. Free your minds and all that.