I haven't had much time to spend on line the past few days, but I am still interested in seeing where this line of speculation can go. I did read the topic as having an inclination toward psionic phenomena as being extant, and addressed my comments in that sense. It occurs to me now to ask if, by speaking of computers as psionics machines, this referrs to a machine that provides a functional capacity or capability we tend to think of as being psionic (fictional or otherwise)? In other words, that psionic abilities such as telepathy and telekenisis could be acheived through the further development of digital technology?

Or, are we taking the liberty of asserting that psionics, while unproven, might be real and that the computer technology we currently use can in some fashion be incorporated into the ways such abilities might be expressed? 

A general trend in the development of a technology is that it tends to follow or closely coincide with advances in the study of similar natural phenomena. To wit, in the era when scientists experimented with the fundamentals of mechanics, we experienced the birth of an industrial ere, and when science and medicine began to explore the functions of the brain, we entered the era of information technology. As a general premise, it would follow that a psionic machine would arise only in an era when psychic phenomena became subject to reliable observation and study, which would first necessitate that individuals demonstrably possessing such abilities emerge. 

I would like to point out, humbly, that even though a thing has not been proven to exist one can not reasonably conclude that it does not or can not exist. In truth, very few events are subjected, or can be subjected, to the kind of testing necessary to establish a hypothesis. General observation suffices for most of human experience. That said, it is reasonable enough to suppose that a thing might exist, and further, that many things cannot be tested because to some degree they are misconceived of. Psionic abilities do not seem very probable, but at this time it is not appropriate to claim that they are impossible. 

I for one would find it much easier to address the topic of this thread if we clarified what it is we mean here when we speak of psionics and in what manner or context a psionics machine arises.