
The comment under the map sums things up pretty clearly. "Population is rising fastest in the world regions that can least afford to support more people" (Macionis, 2006). Of course, it is a bit more difficult to see exactly what is going on. Assuming that migration has been factored in, or factored out as a factor for population growth, as the case may be, we have to assume that this issue is concerned with the birth of new people. Thus, we have to take into account the pressures that encourage or discourage reproduction in a range of societies. We already know that highly industrialized societies are both more wealthy and less dependent on physical labor. We also know that in less industrialized societies, opportunities are more limited and living conditions are more harsh. The combination of harsh living conditions and limited opportunity creates an environment where it takes hard, constant labor to eke out an existence, and that mortality rates are higher. In an industrialized society, there are more opportunities for financial success, but that also requires more education and training to be able to pursue those opportunities, so individuals spend a great deal of time in pursuits outside of the home, working or going to school. There are also more diversions, more ways for people to distract and amuse themselves. The difference between industrial and non-industrial societies is dramatic, and the difference in population growth is dramatic proof of the difference in the quality of life. The lower quality of life in non-industrial societies, particularly poor ones, creates pressure to reproduce, partly because more bodies are needed to share the labor, and partly because there are few other "recreational" activities to indulge in. The consequences of this contrast in population growth makes it evident that an industrial society is a bit more stable, depending on the standard of living enjoyed by the majority, while the low standard of living suffered by a poor, non-industrial society encourages growth and violent competition for resources and opportunity. Poverty is like a cancer that grows without restraint and threatens to overwhelm and consume everything in its path. And, as it true for cancers, the problem is that the individuals, the "cells" so to speak, have no legitimate place or purpose in the bigger picture. They are concerned solely with their individual survival and compete so fiercely with their neighbors, it is difficult for them to organize into something more stable and productive. 

I notice that most of us have mentioned poverty and "unplanned" parenthood, and both of those conditions are made worse by a lack of decent education, but Yvonne has come right out and specifically mentioned boredom. I understood exactly what she was saying, and I made the same point myself in my own response. Sex does not need much help to be the most popular activity for people to engage in, and I know I don't have to explain why! It has always been a tricky and troubling thing, however, because it's not all innocent fun. Sex has powerful consequences. When everything goes right, for the right reason, sex creates life and strengthens relationships. When something goes wrong, however, sex can have deadly consequences, and because it is something we have great difficulty communicating about with children and adolescents, and often even adults, sex goes wrong all too often. The ways in which society has tried to control sex, through legal and moral codes, fail most often because sex is so personal, private and powerfully intimate, so primal, that it does not yield to reason. The sexual part of us is concerned only with being passionately alive, and passing that life on no matter what. It is our first and foremost impulse, and one that we are designed to satisfy at every possible opportunity. We really do not need much encouragement, so when we talk about people having sex out of boredom, what we are really talking about is having no meaningful or engaging creative outlets to divert us from this primal impulse. The only way a society can legitimately discourage sex is by diverting our passion and creativity into other activities. It's not enough to just make everyone work harder or longer. The work itself has to be engaging. If the life you have is not worth living, and you have to toil in misery just to survive, those reproductive survival instincts will kick into overdrive and sex will become your number one priority. It's just part of how we are wired. If our own survival seems uncertain, we are driven to ensure the survival of our genes and thus the survival of our species. Pain, misery, suffering, fear, confusion, displacement, doubt, and uncertainty are what drives people to engage recklessly in sex, in any part of the world and in any society. Boredom is an aggravated form of displacement; to be left at loose ends with nothing useful to do, you do what comes naturally. 

Oh, I think I sort of answered that -- an answer by implication, mabye? -- in my response to Yvonne. In this thread, we have all looked at the impact of poverty on population growth, and since the real solution will never be put into practice (changing the system to meet the needs of all people) the people who need help are once again going to be forced to solve problems that plague even the wealthiest nations with little or no resources. Perhaps that is the best way, since what is really required is a change in attitudes and perspective, a different way of thinking and a different way of sharing and using information and creative intelligence, and in order for such changes to be reflected in the system, they have to be ingrained in the minds of the majority of people in the system -- and those people are the poor and disadvantaged. I think everyone is familiar with that quote about "never before have so many people done so much, for so many, with so little" and honestly, that is how it is going to have to be. I was talking about the way opportunities in a stable society divert passion and creativity from primal urges like the sex drive, and the effects of a society with no productive creative outlets. So, in answer to the question you asked, Patrice, that is one thing that could be addressed. It starts with the question, how can we stimulate the hearts and minds of the poor and oppressed, inspire them to dream, invent, build, experiment, learn, create? If the mind is engaged, not in toil, but in wonder and discovery, in active, passionate and dynamic thought, it has a sense of purpose and power. People think that money runs the world, but in truth, it is imagination. If not for our dreams of what could be, what we might do or become, we would have nothing to inspire us in our pursuit of money. People in poverty grow up and toil in fields of broken dreams, and eventually stop dreaming. They stop hoping for a life worth living. Dreams are life. We need to get them dreaming again. 