In order for any part of a task to be done properly, the person responsible for it has to have the resources and autonomy, or the authority, to get it done. The failure of any part of the task, while partly the responsibility of the person charged with it, is also a failure on the part of the overseer. From this, it should follow that a successful manager is someone who can 1) understand the big picture, 2) delegate authority, 3) communicate, 4) coordinate, and 5) motivate, or convey to subordinates an understanding of how their effort contributes to the big picture.

The authority a leader has is directly proportional to the responsibility inherent in a given task. The greater authority of a leader is only marginally greater than that of any subordinate, once the task is delegated; the leader's job is to delegate authority and responsibility in equal measure, monitor and support those delegates, and ensure that each contribution fulfills the needs of the task. 

A leader works in partnership with and is the linchpin of the group. Thus, leadership moves toward the center of the action, not just above it, and the proper use of authority distributes the power of an organization, rather than concentrating it in one individual.

Any workplace can offer examples of coworkers acting like children in their subordinate roles, then turning around and acting like parents when taking on supervisory roles; it almost seems as if the behavior reflects the way they perceive their responsibility--or whether they feel that their responsibility comes with a degree of authority or autonomy.

People have different strengths and weaknesses, different levels of commitment and participation, and they do not always get along ideally. Also, conflict can have positive as well as negative outcomes, such as a subordinate insisting on a better way of doing a task and arguing about it until a supervisor makes the effort to consider that input and test it. Clearly, communication is what makes it possible to get anything done and determines how well things will get done over all.

Week 4 - Discussion Question #1
Due:  Day 3 (Thursday, March 20, 2008)

Use the SQ3R reading method described in Chapter 5 of the text Keys for College Studying when reading that chapter. What did you notice about the chapter? What do the authors want you to know? What questions did you write down about Chapter 5? What notes did you take? Do you think SQ3R helped you apply the ideas presented in the chapter to your study habits? Why or why not?

This was not the first time I have been exposed to the SQ3R reading method; it actually came up in a few of my Axia courses and I can recall similar studies dating all the way back to honors and AP English classes in high school. I can also say that I developed and used essentially the same techniques for my own reading purposes as far back as the third grade. I am a super-critical auditor, which means that I have trained myself to deconstruct and analyze all information I am presented with, so the first response I can give is that this chapter is like a primer in how I think; this chapter explains how to abstract the structure and principles that underly a given body of text. One could describe the intial process as a structure query search algorythym, a process of extrapolating the data space of a topic by picking out the essential structure, scale and relationships covered in the text and associating it with an existing pool of knowledge or experience. The process of association includes a preliminary challenge or test phase; based on the initial apprehension, questions can be posed that direct the attention in next stage or the initial full reading. The recitation phase for me is a bit more internal and elaborate than the example given; I have a tendency to begin the recitation phase at the survey phase, and continue by privately observing how the knowledge fits in, challenges, alters and or expands my understanding of the given topic and any topic I can relate it to. My ability to retain information depends on how well I understand something and how dependant that understanding is upon specific details it was presented with. This allows me to own concepts very quickly, though I have greater difficulty with the associated trivia, the historical or biographical information. It is not that I do not find those aspects interesting, I do; I simply have not found an effective way of storing and retrieving name/date facts. Another way of putting it is that I invest so much more attention into testing and exploring concepts that the biographical and historical information gets eclipsed. 

Week 4 - Discussion Question #2
Due:  Day 3 (Thursday, March 20, 2008)

Why are ethics a concern in an academic environment?

This is a suprisingly simple and straightforward question for this far into the course. The very purpose of an academic environment is to combine learning with accreditation. An academic course of study is used to establish that an individual has fulfilled a commitment to learn and comprehend materials in accordance with an established standard of knowledge and application and to guarantee a measure of trust and reliability essential to ensure professional competence. Ethical concerns are of utmost importance in an academic environment for each of those purposes and more. In the simplest terms, ethics is doing the right things for the right reasons for the good or betterment of individuals and soceity. Ethical concerns help to determine what knowledge needs to be cultivated, preserved and promoted as well as helping to establish how it is to be taught and used. The historical prevalence of "ends justify the means" types of exploit undermine the very fabric of society giving rise to a subtle corruption that reveals itself in the common assumption that the only thing that matters is the perception of the end result. Schools are not required for human beings; people learn constantly and in spite of themselves. Schools are required to ensure that the structure and quality of learning meets a certain standard which inlcudes an assurance that the student comprehends what he or she has learned and is able to apply the knowledge and skills he or she has studied. Above all, an academic environment should impress upon all students the importance of using knowledge and skills ethically. Failing to do so only contributes to the travesty of exploitation that is so common in human affairs. 

What most people mean by cheating, I tend to agree with whole heartedly; my personal belief is that a cheater cheats no one more than him/herself. On the other hand, I also look at it as a matter of integrity before ethics. Integrity drives a person to take responsibility for who and what they are, how they act, what they do, and to understand why they do what they do. Ethics can guide a person in society, by forcing a person to consider the impact of their actions on others, and a person with integrity will strive to be ethical, but the best ethics in the universe cannot hold a person accountable for the actions they actually take. The thing that ethics and integrity have in common is the requirement that people think about what they are doing and why. The difference, it seems to me, is in how a person judges what is right and wrong. Ethics manifest as rules or codes of conduct, while integrity is a quality that must be created and maintained by force of character and will. By violating the ethical standards of society, a person can lose their standing in society, but violating personal integrity is self-destructive. A person who cheats tries to take credit for something he or she did not do and this will inevitably discredit them. The "crime" is simply a form of lying to others, but the consequence is having to live a lie--and there are few more self-destructive things a person can do. Worse, when a person lies to others, there is a temptation to believe the lie. The only way to lie to yourself, though, it by sacrificing your ability to know the truth. That said, I could never agree that cheating is a victimless crime.

Christian, I will agree that it is hard to watch those around you failing to act ethically, but personally, I do not find it hard at all to act ethically myself. I find that my own sense of self-respect is enough to encourage me to do the right thing, however hard it is. Every unethical and despicable human act diminishes the world for all of us, and recognizing that is enough to keep me from envying those to cheat to get ahead, and the people who cheat to make themselves look good are the ugliest and lowest in my eyes. In many cases, seeing what such people pursue helps me to see how empty and meaningless many of the things people fight over really are, allowing me to focus on the things that have true value and meaning that get wasted and squandered by those who pursue wealth, fame and power. It can be rather hard to survive in a world shaped and controlled by "takers" and there are times when I ask myself it it's worth it... but there seem to be enough "givers" in the world to keep things more or less in balance.

This is kind of leaning toward off topic, but as I was reading Pranati's post, I was reminded of a problem I faced in high school and when I first attempted to go to college. My family moved around frequently while I was growing up, so I attended schools in several different states; I started out in some exceptionally good schools, but as our family moved west, the quality of my education seemed to go down hill. I would start at a new school and discover that my new class was just beginning to study something I had already covered at my previous school, and instead of being advanced to my level of study I was kept with my peer group and forced to study the material a second time. By the time I moved to California, I was able to skip the eighth grade and I was still repeating the work. Starting from a very young age, I was a quick learner and very impatient with school, so I had always been under a great deal of pressure to perform well. So, there I was, often way ahead of the class and bored out of my mind; I only needed to skim through the reading to keep pace, and I often did my homework during the last few minutes of my previous class. At times, I did not complete or turn in assignments out of resentment because I effectively had not gotten credit for having done them the first time. This did terrible things to my study habits, and left me with a bit of contempt for the educational system. There were many times when I was tempted to cheat the system because I felt that the system had cheated me. I resisted the temptation, but since then I have seen hundreds of people cheat for the same reason. This is essentially an end result of not giving people credit for what they have accomplished. When people begin to fear that success can not be achieved through honest effort, and begin to believe that the only way to get ahead is to lie, cheat or steal, the result is not just an ethical problem, it is a serious social problem.

Title and theme...

We started out with a 'use of technology to cheat' theme, so my first thought concerning the "Preventing Cheating" title is that it needs to be revised; if we are placing more emphasis on prevention, that is fine, but I think we should strive for a title that strongly associates the influence of technology. 

Perhaps in keeping with the title, the paper starts out by addressing the solution, rather than the problem, or at least part of the solution, which is of course the use of technology to prevent or discourage cheating. I think it would be better to introduce the problem first. 

Input...

Academic cheating is nothing new; the problem is that technology makes it almost too easy. While cheating is the actual problem, technology provides people who are inclined to cheat with greater means, better methods and more opportunities (Sack, 2004; O'Neil, 2003). This does not mean that technology is to blame, in fact, technology can be part of the solution (Jackson, 2007; McMurtry, 2001). What matters most is not how people cheat; we need to focus on why people cheat. Then we can look at what they are cheating on, or when and where they are likely to cheat. Understanding why people cheat helps us to determine who is liable to cheat, and that can enable us to focus our efforts to prevent cheating where it will do the most good (O'Neil, 2003). 

Under the right circumstances, every single one of us can be tempted to cheat; whenever we experience an impulse to change things to a desired outcome we are guilty of the impulse to cheat. It happens when see something as simply the means to an end (Haskvitz, 2005), rather than an end in and of itself. When education is simply a means to an end, or worse, a means to a means to an end, it can become an obstacle to progress (Haskvitz, 2005). 

"The art of becoming a good student is an action that cannot be shared. It is self-imposed for the most part, and implies that the challenge and pursuit of excellence is worth the battle" (Haskvitz, 2005).

Observations...

Technology, whether in the form of simple, stone tools or sophisticated, electronic instruments, has allowed human beings to make incredible progress when it is used properly. When these tools are used improperly, however, they can stop progress in its tracks or reverse it altogether. For example, technology designed to make it easier for us to communicate with each other can be abused to cheat in school. 

What is often taken for granted is the fact that it is the skill a person acquires overcoming that obstacle that makes it valuable. 

The causes of cheating are nowhere near as simple, and failing to address them is tantamount to cheating.
--------------------------------------------------
Skills for Professional Development 
BSITMVC.02-26.BSDJ0AXR00-GEN300
Trellany Thomas-Evans

Learning_Team_A_Paper(Final Draft_Pending_Review).doc 
Posted: 03/25/2008 07:18 AM, by:   Barry Mullins
Posted: 03/25/2008 11:34 AM, by:   Douglas Gross

taking back the advantage.doc (44 KB)
Posted: 03/27/2008 01:33 PM, by:   Christian Andersen

Learning_Team_A_Paper(Final_Draft_Pending_Review)[1].doc 
Posted: 03/27/2008 02:15 PM, by:   Gilda McFarland

