Week 8, Discussion Question 1
due Tuesday, July 10


How are newer religions different from older ones? How are they similar?

(“Newer religions” refers to Christianity and Islam; “older religions” refers to Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, and indigenous religions.  Please do not discuss this in terms of new churches within the category of Protestant Christianity.)

I find this question difficult to address in conjunction with this week's reading (Chapter 12: New Religious Movements) and the clarification of the question I included (above). When thinking of "newer" religions I am inclined to think of the new religious movements rather than Christianity or Islam. Assuming that we simply have not gotten as far as discussing the new religious movements, I will attempt to address the question as it has been clarified. 

How are Christianity and Islam different from Judaism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Daoism, Hinduism, et al? Now there's a big question! There's actually an art to answering a question like this. On one level, newer religions differ from older religions by virtue of emerging in the shadow of older beliefs. They differ by virtue of adapting to different circumstances, different cultures, and among people with different languages. The human mind can only encompass ideas for which it has concepts and words to relate to with. Newer religions are similar to older religions often by virtue of adopting many ideas and concepts from a world informed by those older religions and the ideas they helped provide concepts and words for. 

The thing that all religions have in common is the emergence of individuals who have been committed to answering the difficult questions that we face in life. In indigenous cultures, individuals predisposed to this kind of wisdom have always been encouraged and cultivated as part of the tribe, in which the needs of the community were met by those who were capable of fulfilling those needs. The wise men of the tribe made it their duty to gather, enhance and pass on the wisdom from one generation to the next. There being no answers that could not be questioned, there were no final answers. It was the change in human life brought on by technology, the passing of mere technique and knowledge, without wisdom, that created a rift between industry and enlightenment. The more industrous a community became, the more institutionalized life became, the more other concerns would overrule wisdom--until common sense was no longer common at all. 

Staking claim to the world, and becoming proprietary, human beings began to place more value on property, wealth and produce, and the value of a human being diminished. The things that other people could provide became more important than the people themselves, and the habit of taking what we wanted from the world prompted some to take what they wanted from other people. We realized that we were a threat to ourselves, we became spiritual cannibals, preying upon each other--often in spite of our selves. We lost our balance. There remained among us those who devoted themselves to understanding life and finding balance in it, and they were rare enough that the most gifted of them stood out for generations in our minds as great teachers, capable of seeing and understanding the truth, the value of life, and the simple things we could do to keep it in balance. But, in telling people what to do, they unwittingly propagated the notion that selfless sacrifice and thoughtless obedience was demanded, and conditioned people in a way that made it easy for ruthless individuals to control and oppress entire communities, even nations. 

For those who sought wealth, power, fame, or immortality, religion was simply another means of exploiting people. Some religions are more prone to exploitation than others, and that seems to be based on how much influence and authority the individuals within it can possess. When any person is given the power to do great good, he or she is also given the power to do great evil, so it is not the tool that is at fault, but the people who use the tool, or tolerate its use. 

Islam, Christianity, Judaism and Buddhism (and to a lesser degree, Confucianism) can be put into a class apart from Hinduism and indigenous religions, by virtue of having a singular and notable founder. This gives them many significant similarities which can be found even in the circumstances in their founders' life experiences. Religions without personal founders are born of collected traditions and wisdom reaching back to a community's earliest ancestors. 

New religions break with old religions in the mistaken belief that the spiritual problems in the world are created by the spiritual practices being wrong. The truth has always been that the spiritual practices a community observed were less at fault than the material or physical practices they indulged. People of good character are people of good character, regardless of what language they speak, what rituals they practice, or what clothes they wear. People of bad character are people who are damaged. There are many ways people can become damaged, and some times the things that damage us can be overcome and allow us to become better people. 

Every sound religion has tried to address this problem by encouraging habits that reduced the amount of damage people did to each other and providing means for helping those who get damaged to heal and become stronger. Few religions have been successful in cultivating enough "goodwill" in people to overcome the damage that had already been done. In part, because we refuse to let go of habits, methods and practices that damage us. We created something we don't know how to control, something that has become big enough to control us but is not capable of controlling itself. We think it is the solution to all our problems, but it has no true existence, no substance, no power, no influence or value apart from what it takes from us. The form we know it in is money, and the science of it is economics. What it really is, however, is the social contract we have all been forced to participate in. 

It is a contract in which our own value is indeterminate, in which nothing is held sacred. We live and work in the pursuit of money, confident in the belief that money will provide for our needs, ignorant of the fact that money simply tricks us into providing for each other's needs, and indifferent to the fact that our devotion to money allows us to be exploited by people, to be controlled by people simply because they control money. Strange place to end up, in a discussion about religion, but the funny thing is, religion fails because people never listen to this part of religion. Christ taught that the way to show devotion to God was by showing devotion to each other. The way to help God, was by helping each other. He was infuriated by the money lenders in the temple because they supported themselves by exploiting people rather than through honest, useful and productive work. Buddha taught that desire for material things created nothing but suffering, and urged people to purge themselves of "wants" and devote themselves to meeting "needs." 

The differences in religion are due to the differences in the world that each religion faced, and much of the world has remained the same. The problems humans face have not changed in nature, only in scope. Thus, newer religions are different from older religions in scope. Newer religions often have to adopt or assimilate the concepts and rituals of older religions to survive, and the concepts and rituals of older religions evolve to cope with the imposition of newer religions. In any religion, there is a lot of stuff mixed in that is not necessary. It's just there to make a bitter pill easier to swallow. 
