I proposed that the mind be considered a bridge between the body and the soul specifically to avoid any premature conclusions about the nature of the mind or soul at a time when we are unable to pursue a study outside of the realm of physical phenomena. In doing so, I clarified a point that is typically assumed whenever someone makes reference to a realm of spiritual phenomena. So, in fact, I removed a common assumption from the equation.

Anyone who understands the notion put forth in the movie The Matrix ought to be able to understand why I emphasize the significance of the mind, specifically by identifying it as the interface between the physical and the metaphysical. For one thing, it is the one non-physical thing each of us is acquainted with. It can be reasonably be argued that all metaphysics exist solely in the mind, but I have to point out that all physics can reasonably be argued to exist solely in the mind. I know someone will jump on that statement, and they will do so without regard to what I point out next. That statement is based on a simple observation and a general extrapolation. The observation is this. I exist in my mind. Everything I know about the universe is based on my interpretations of my perception of the structure (or construct) I have experienced as the universe. The general extrapolation is that every human being is confined to a similar POV. The only thing I can be certain of is that the universe is information. To be more specific, the universe is a complex structure of integrated information that is persistent and functional. This is not a new idea at all. Taken to an extreme, it is Solipsism. This is also what I was hinting at when I commented on "Sharing a Dream" as a protocol for telepathy. As much as a person might dispise the notion of considering the mind the foundation of anything, much less reality, the observation remains accurate. A person with some experience with the more sophisticated aspects of simulation understands that the quality we think of as physicality is one that can be created simply by imposing limits on interaction. Phrased slightly differently, behavior can be mathematically defined in the operation of object functions and parameters to create the phenomina of physicality. 

This is within the scope of our understanding. It is far from a complete explanation... it isn't quite an arguement for the consideration of a possability that is congenitally overlooked. This is just the first glimpse of an idea.  

Cartesian Theatre ... I was not sure if it described an observer paradox or simply stated a question about the nature of consciousness. However, I can say this. I have not proposed an answer to the mind-body problem; I simply wedged open a door and proposed that we look at it from a different perspective. The questions go beyond merely pointing out the position the mind occupies and the significance of that position. 

Awareness is essential to existence, but not exclusively. Together with a structure that is variable and persistant, in a context that is accessible to perception and interpretation, existence can resolve coherently. A universe that is lacking in the participation of awareness, perception and interpretation of structure that includes static and dynamic elements would be meaningless. Put more simply, for us existence is an absolute. If any one of the mentioned aspects were missing, existence would not be possible. 

Before going further, I would like to point out that however unsettling it might seem to propose that existence is grounded in a mental process, the current understanding of existence, grounded in a physical process, stands on a foundation of quantum mechanics (in which physics breaks down), the invisible, intangible forces of electric, magnetic, gravitic, strong and weak nuclear fields and bounded by entropy and the supermassive energy of black holes (where physics breaks down). As far as I know, there are no answers to where space and energy or supermass came from or how something abstract like mathematics can account for the structure and behavior of it all. As near as I can tell, the physical universe is actually an energy/information universe.

Because of our experience with life in the world in a material context, it is easy to understand our predisposition toward thinking of existence in material terms. We function in an object oriented environment. However, it is both feasible and viable to approach existence from a non-material perspective in a purely conceptual context. Obviously, as participants subject to existence, we are not in a position to subject such a universe to comprehensive experimental analysis. We simply are not in a position to determine whether the universe is a structure or a construct as long as we find ourselves inside it. 

I am aware that, by positing a universe like this, I am making allowances for things that would, from a physical stand point, be mental or spiritual in nature. But, it is not the intent of this speculation to justify any of these things mererly by positing their existence. Because this is more of an exercise in logic, the purpose of proposing a mental foundation is to allow for the logical analysis of what could or should be possible in such a context, followed by an assessment of what is more or less probable in the application of this model. Also, I am only extending it here in order to address the questions of psionics as a class of phenomena and machines as being exploitable by or capible of exploiting such phenomena. Whether or not this method accurately reflects or predicts the truth about existence is incidental to that purpose. 

If asked, I will of course expand upon or explain any point that requires clarification. Adam has, essentially, asked the first question with regard to the structure of the mind. The question seems to have a built in assumption that the mind is a composite construct or an incorporated structure. The gist of the question, however, was "in or upon what does the mind depend?" and the answer was present but not explicit in my previous remarks. I believe I mentioned that the philosphy behind my remarks considers a soul to be absolute, and the mind is resident in the soul. Doubt that, question that or criticize that as you will, but as far as I am concerned the existence of the soul deserves the benefit of the doubt, because the alternative is not only oblivion, it renders life itself somewhat pointless. Anyway, as long as I am inclined to insist upon the existence of the soul it might as well serve a significant purpose in the scheme of things. Isn't philosophy fun?

Now, kidding aside, I know that does not answer or explain much as far as what the mind and the soul are or how they work. You know I cannot give you an answer or an explanation. I can only extrapolate through deductive logic what is required for them to function in specific capacities and regards as postulated by observation or inquiry.


For the individual, existence is a self-evident truth, which is represented in the philosophical, "I think, therefore I am," but as you note, establishing the truth of other peoples' existence is difficult. Even with telepathy, there would remain some question as two minds in rapport would be, to some extent, of one mind. It would be possible to establish that the participants were distinct personalities with unique experiences but how would one determine that the other was not merely a different aspect of himself? It would come down to the assertiveness of the individuals and their demonstration of autonomy. 

Which brings to mind a consequence of establishing the mind as a by-product of neurochemistry. If the mind is created by the brain, then the mind is ultimately, in essence and nature, an expression of the universe. That is, a mind is merely an expression of universal potential and all minds, being dependant on common phenomena like electricity and magnetism, are subordinate to a single entity: The Universe. In this case, by virtue of common nature and structural compatibility, we are all expressions of the same entity and our "soul" is this universe. Given that, I don't see why telepathy, empathy, esp or any other passive psionic ability could not occur. Similar structures, or dependant constructs ought to have at least the potential for such orders of sensitivity simply through the mechanism of resonance. Of course, all the steps in this line of speculation are not represented here, but I think only moderate imagination is necessary to grasp the implications. 


Antonio Damasio revealed entire 'new' aspects of our functioning minds. [PC]

I followed the link and read the review. Given how informative the review was, I believe it would be very interesting to read the actual book, but based on what is presented in the review, Damasio's approach and the corralaries found in AI research are precisely what I exect to find in an arguement for a material basis for the mind. It is certainly a strong argument against the seperation of the mind and body as it presents a strong model for a cooperative, interdependant and integral relationship for the evolution of the body and mind. Also, as \blue{pc} pointed out, it does not employ a self-referencing paradox or external agent to explain or account for the emergence of consciousness or the manifestation of intelligent coordination. 

It does not, however, provide an answer or explanation for the property or quality of awareness. While citing the existence and evolution of feed back mechanisms, it is difficult to employ the principle of communication in which the transmission of significance and meaning exclusive of conceptualization and understanding. Perhaps that is an aspect found in the actual text that I have not seen. As for the manner in which sensory impressions form the foundation for distributed processing, as convincing as the argument given is, again there is no account for the phenomenon of awareness and consciousness, what we exprience as the mind encompassing the process of emergent thought. Even when we are not conscious of what we know, we are aware that we know it. The competition described as distributed impressions cohere into an impulse is something we are aware of, even if we ignore it. More needs to be said in regards to the coherence of the mind, because, as I pointed out earlier, the mind is our interface with the universe. It is the lens in which awareness if focused into consciousness and understanding. So far, a convincing explanation for why the mind and the body are so intimately integrated suceeds only in establishing that the body is an important structural componant of the mind, which is to say that the body clearly exists for a reason. The same, of course, still has to be said about the mind. Pairing them this way simply relieves us of the painful paradox of the chicken and the egg.

\blue{pc} continues: \i{And yet, even as Damasio 'adds' more and deeper mental layers, I detect no sign of a central coordinator, much less a 'true self,' Cartesian or otherwise.}

Here's an interesting point. The 'true self' is inescapably and ultimately a reference to the soul. The "third" element... or the "fifth" element of ancient times. This is the ghost in the machine, the primordial magical paradigm. The meta principle. The 'true self' is in many ways an invention of the mind, the mind's way of asserting itself to be something more than the sum of its parts. It is a consequence of the ability to conceive of one's self and a prerequisite of the ability to conceive of another. It is here that the seperation of the individual from the environment actually occurs and here, philosophically, where the individual "acquires" a soul. Put more blatently, it is the emergence of self possession. It is simply ironic that this occurrence is an epiphany, a focusing of awareness into a primal point, a singularity of consciousness that inversely encompasses the complex of thoughts, feelings and experiences that define us. You can model it. It results in a four-dimensional construct, and it is experienced in a manner consistent with four-dimensional construction. In it, all points are equidistant from the focus, and space is created as required to accommodate whatever internal reflection is instigated.

A static image can convey a dynamic impression. 
An equation embodies a temporal progression. 

In response to your question, \blue{pc}, selfishness is one deritive of self\u{conscious}ness that is a highly probably result of introversion in response to the perception of aloneness and uniqueness. That makes it a common obstacle in the evolution of the self which opens the door to self-pity and self-importance. It can prevent an individual from fully recognizing the significance of others and developing the capacity for sympathy or empathy that emerges from recognizing similarity in others. This is where abstraction begins, and as comparisons are made with entities and objects of increasing dissimilarity a greater effort is required to acheive an abstract identification with and understanding of them. This is of course a pattern limited to the extension of voluntary concern, interest or respect. External phenomena can exact concern, interest or respect, such as fire, violent storms, malevolent entities (real or imagined) and adverse phenomena such as death. Individuals that are extremely introverted tend to only respect those things that "demand" respect.  


This is not a flame or a criticism. Everyone is free to disagree with me or chime in as they see fit, but I have to contest \blue{What?} on this, again. He asserts that it is useless to speculate or postulate or even just free associate or abstract about a topic. Except in the case where you are presenting an arguement that proves itself to be true, you might as well turn in your brain and your thinking priveleges, because you're just wasting time and energy. 

That is like asking an author to skip all the steps of conceiving, planning and executing a novel and just produce the final manuscript (flawlessly) from the start. \blue{What?} does not seem to possess a capacity for abstraction and free association that is necessary for anyone, especially scientists, to formulate a conceptual understanding of circumstances and events and devise an appropriate perspective on the problem from which to abstractly model the functions and parameters that will define the equations, arguments and propositions of a theory in the form of a testable experiment. 

In addition, \blue{What?} requires us to dismiss ideas out of hand indifferent to the fact that they are part of the legacy we've inherited through language and culture, ignoring the way in which we are all (including him) influenced by them and the manner in which we respond to and employ them. Science condemns what it terms as superstitious thought, because the art and practice of science was persecuted by political powers that established their authority on claims to exclusive access to the spiritual powers and metaphysical truths. Science has not and can not abolish superstition, it simply calls it such and waves it away. This is in spite of the fact that the majority of people sincerely believe in God, spirits, souls, life after death... including a significant percentage of scientists. It is foolish to pretend that the concepts and arguments of superstitious thought can simply and successfully be ignored. A true scientist cannot afford to make assumptions about the unknown, and in areas where an influence or phenomenon is suspected, he has to address it in his conceptual approach or else admit that he is introducing a model that is flawed \i{in his own understanding}.

This is why science limits itself to answering what and how questions and restricts itself to the study of material, self evident phenomena. 

A great deal can be learned about the mind simply by observing how it goes about solving problems and resolving conflicts. 

We can deduce, from the existence so many "self-sustaining" beliefs that the mind is conscious of its own existence and is concerned about ensuring its own survival, even apart from the physical context in which it initially finds itself. This is an incredibly significant observation, and it applies to most of humanity. Even more important, in cases where the mind cannot convince itself of the importance its existence, the necessity of its suffering, and the siginficance of its destiny, it can become self destructive. When the mind faces the prospect of certain destruction (as it does in moments of unbearable and inescapable sufering), when the mind perceives that it is trapped, it will pursue the only escape available to it. Suicide in sentient beings is utterly irrational, and yet, the mind somehow senses the prospect of safety and survival in retreating into oblivion. There are many ways in which the mind preserves itself by embracing oblivion. What is even more interesting is the number of physical mechanisms that have evolved to "protect" the mind (in addition to those that merely protect the brain). In this thread, I am sure a good sized list can be assembled, but we can include the effects of the dying process observed in cases of natural and near death, the responses to overstimulation, understimulation, sensory deprevation, trauma displacement, temporary insanity... Oblivion is useful to the mind, embraced by the mind, and employed or outright exploited by the mind. The reason for this, I suspect, is because oblivion is innate to awareness, what we can call zero-awareness or zero-dimensional awareness. Could it be significant that awareness in it's least active and most passive state would naturally reduce itself to a particle, a mathematical point? 

For the benefit of participants like \blue{What?} I would like to take a moment to explain what it is that I am doing here in my posts. I am not engaging in the formulation of hypotheses in accordance to scientific method. I am engaging in \i{paradigm shift} the consideration of ideas and concepts in accordance to how they relate to and effect one another. In science and philosophy it is essential to recognize and formulate a context in which phenomena occcur, and the result is a paradigm. That might not be the dictionary definition, but that is the sense in which I am using it here. The general paradigm of science is that things have an innate physical existence, or are embodied in a physical context from which information can be extracted, like mathematics, that is directly dependant on and consistent with their physical origins. That is a singluar and limted paradigm and the problem with it is that it is ultimately static and does not account for the dynamic evidenced in the transformation of the universe that is constantly occuring. 

To pick a specific example of paradigm shift, let's look at what we call energy. We don't know what it is. We postulate the existence of energy on the basis of its effects, theorizing that energy is responsible for all changes in state. An equation is, at its heart, a representation of this. The equation defines two states, generally distinguished from one another by time and expressed in variables constraining the scope of the transformation or translation at hand. Energy is derived from an equation by observing and measuring the nature and scope of changes that occur in the relationships of static variables, mass, distance, time, vector, et al. In many cases, energy can be derived by breaking down a static variable, such as mass or force. Upon looking at all the ways energy can be integrated with and abstracted from structure, many people have concluded that all things arise from and are energy and the physical universe simply a by-product of the ways in which energy can be structured and how that structure determines the behavior of energy. That leaves us with two perplexing questions, where before we had one. What is energy and what influences and constrains energy to produce structure? Of course, we arrive at this point oblivious to the fact that we have lost track of an important contributor to this mystery. Information. Without changing the nature of existence at all, we have transformed the physical universe into a universe of energy and information, a mental universe. That is a paradigm shift. 

Please forgive me for the long and serial posts, but it does take a bit of wind to make a point sometimes and space in these posts is limited. 

My previous post was in part a clarification but I realized there is one more step to go. Inlcuded as an example of paradigm shift above is what amounts to an observation. It is an observation I have made and which others before me have made. It was on the basis of such an observation that I took a serious interest in pursuing the possability of phychic phenomena. 

In my initial post I pointed out a group of legetimate phychic phenomena, awareness, will, intuition, thought, and emotion. These are legitimately phenomena intrinsic to the psyche. The fantastic phychic phenomena of telepathy, esp, telekensis or psychokinesis, teleportation and derivitaves that could be classed as magic phenomena would depend on one thing, something implicated in the paradigm shift I elaborated above. We already accept the transformation or translation of matter into energy and vice versa as possible consequences of quantum mechanica and general relativity, but if there were also a legitimate mechanism for the translation of energy into information and vice versa then we would have a paradigm amenable to psychic phenomena. So far, we only have examples of information derived from the observation of matter and energy and the host of structures that result from their interaction. That means that at present pure information exists only in the context of thought, removed from nature to the degree that consciousness is considered to derive from physical phenomena. The ability of the mind to manipulate information has to be taken as clearly established in the capacity for coherent thought, so it would follow, if pure information can influence the disposition and structure of energy, psionics becomes possible. 

How probable would be another issue, but it could be explored from that point. The current limit of psychic influence on reality is the manner in which objects conceived of in the mind are constructed in the world through physical action. It would not be surprising if that was easier than trying to impress changes on the world through direct psychic action, and can account for the absence of such abilities in a technological society in a universe where such abilities were possible. The simplest solution is generally the one employed in nature. At present, knowledge is the only psychic derivitive we have devised physical tools and machines to transmit, implement, exploit and influence each other with,  but those tools and machines are growing more and more sophisticated and the range of information formats we can employ has grown. There is no question that these things have a psychic impact on us, if not the world, and in that you have a basis for computers as psionics machines. The applications John Thiel has invited us to speculate on can only be derived in a case where an energy-information equivalence can be established, tested and sustained in a scientific fashion. Until you have managed this paradigm shift, you would not have had a criterion upon which to model an experiment. I know that I lack the resources to pursue the matter beyond this point alone, so I heartily invite others to take it up if they see fit. Me, I will continue to ponder the possibility, free associating and refining my perspectives to see if I can clarify the paradigm any further.  



