I set myself free within my imagination, confronting and exploring the implications of existence, and all of the characters capture an aspect of me in this endeavor.    



I have pointed out before that my struggle with gender dysphoria prompted me to search in all directions for a solution to being born in the wrong body, and the determination with which I pursued that goal in spite of all doubts and discouragements -- even attempts to accept things the way they were, adapting to and adopting the identity imposed on me by circumstances -- says a lot about me, and even about what I ultimately concluded. My existence may be supported by reality, the physical, chemical, biological and sociological fabric out of which we all seem to be spun, but none of these things are me. I exist in my mind and that is why the way I perceive myself in my own mind can not only contradict my physical form, but trump it in importance to my survival. I have heard the theories and arguments on nature versus nurture and taking my own experience into consideration I can say that there are elements in both that can help shape who you are, but only by presenting the options or stimulus necessary for you to determine who you are. I cannot tell you if this is a process of creation or revelation; it feels like both. I am the driving and defining force within my own mind; my mind is the structure and articulation of my soul. 

I was born in a context in which everything and everyone seemed to deny my existence, in accordance with the belief that who I was was based upon what I was and where I came from. I was not encouraged to express myself in ways that were inconsistent with my appearance. I've described some of the ways I was discouraged in other writing, and how it affected me. The most important result of this situation was that it did make me conscious of the fact that there was more to me than just my body. I have long since realized that most people are not very clear on what a spirit or a soul really is, but I never really had a problem with that. It was difficult for me to understand the modern view of consciousness and things like mind, spirit and soul as mere epiphenomena. I eventually understood the limitations of scientific thinking responsible for promoting this view, as I understand the way it drives scientists to look for a physical mechanism for the origin of consciousness. On the other hand, I had no difficulty understanding that the mind was central to everything that really mattered about existence. Perhaps that is a result of being hyper-conscious of every thought and action I took as a consequence of being forced to override all of my natural instincts and impulses to conform to people's expectations of me. 

I spent my childhood engaged in a constant, intensive observation of myself and everyone around me. I analyzed the world and all my experiences in it as if my life depended on it, often discovering new ways in which it clearly did. In my day to day life I was as deliberate in the control of my thoughts and emotions as I was in the control of my body. I had to understand as much as possible about how my mind and body worked to achieve that degree of control, which included managing or bypassing a number of "hard wired" behaviors and responses. I was thinking hyper-dimensionally long before I learned that was the way to describe what I was doing, or how to explain the process to someone else. I think the first step in thinking hyper-dimensionally involved the unstated realization that everything in my existence occurred in my mind; the "outside" world distinguished from my "inner" world by my physical perspective in it and limited influence over it. In my "inner" world, I was everyone and everything, everywhere at once -- all on the verge of being nowhere, nothing and nobody. My consciousness was an all encompassing point with unconscious depths in the shadow of oblivion. 

I began to understand that there are many things you have to figure out for yourself, in order to know and understand them, and consciousness is one of those things. I suspect that the scientific study of consciousness will inevitably conclude that it is a complex form of a basic property of "awareness" inherent in energy as the combined medium of information structured in space, time and mind. It might arrive at that conclusion with more esoteric and granular terms, but that is pretty much what it will amount to. Any other proposition runs into the problem of spontaneous generation of the subjective state phenomenon that is the prerequisite for any observer of the objective state. The consequence of any reductive analysis is an increase in relative potential; which is to say that everything is implicit in nothing. The information potential of a singularity is infinite. The interesting thing is that I am not saying anything new here. The same observations have been made again and again in many different ways. None of them make any sense to people until they observe it for themselves. I have no idea what conclusions a scientifically valid description of it will lead to. The first steps in this direction were taken when science confronted the quantum paradox and the possibility of observer based reality. 

For my purposes, this observation is not the end; it is just the beginning. To be perfectly frank, I find myself in an untenable position and this can only be corrected in a world where things we would think of as magical or miraculous can occur. In part, this is because any question of physical transformation runs into problems related to the preservation of the mind. I ran into this while contemplating the use of future nanotechnology to remodel a living body, picking this as the most scientifically plausible method of turning a man into a woman. Biological processes can and should be viewed as proof of the concept of nanotechnology, in which complex organisms are constructed on a molecular level. We know that some aspects of personality can be passed on biologically, but there is no indication that the subjective consciousness is transferable. If you were cloned, the clone would be his or her own person, with a unique subjective consciousness. He might be like you, and assuming your exact brain structure and chemical memory was copied precisely, think he was you, but you would not be him. Nothing we know of suggests that there is any continuity of consciousness in that kind of situation. In a transformational process, there is every chance that the thread of subjective consciousness would be broken as one form was broken down and another built up. 

The possibility of transitional death forced me to focus on understanding the nature and survival requirements of the mind, and this is ultimately a question of significance for all of us in the face of the inevitability of death. Death is the inescapable paradox. It is reasonable to assume that it inspired the concepts of spirits and souls. The prospect of oblivion is something that drives us to truly assert ourselves, to dream of and strive for immortality. In our lives we experience oblivion in different ways. In a way, the singularity of our consciousness exists in a bubble of oblivion. It is not hard to argue that individual consciousness can only exist if it is shielded from universal consciousness. Until we actually die, we cannot know if death is the end of consciousness, the end of individuality, or the beginning of something else. All we can do is ask what the existence of the mind really depends on. One possibility is that the body and brain is the foundation on which the mind is built, while the other is that the body and brain are merely the scaffolding used in building a mind that can stand alone. We might as well be asking if the world is really what it appears to be. As it happens, it is not. The world as we know it exists only in our minds. 

To be more specific, we exist in our minds and the world we perceive is constructed in our minds based on information provided through our senses. What we can know about the universe is based on the information that can be derived through its structure. Perception is the conversion of structure into information, through the structure itself, into our minds. Our bodies, our physical senses and our brains are part of and can be found in that structure, but our minds cannot. Our minds possess structure, based on they way they use information, however; this gives us information and structure in both abstract and manifest states. The process of transition from a manifest state to an abstract state presents us with one dynamic. The constant transformation of structure in the universe and in the mind gives us another dynamic, in general terms "change" or in more specific resolution "time" which we derive from the continuity of perception. It is possible that consciousness emerges from the organization of awareness in the structures of perception through the interpretation of information derived from static interactions with dynamic structure in the universe. The interesting question, of course, is what does the existence of the universe depend? 

I am not sure anyone claims to know an answer to this question, but science has given us a lot of ideas derived from tested information about the universe. It does not give us an origin for the medium of space-time or energy, but it can tell us that all matter is derived from energy and structure. I am strongly inclined to look at space and time as part of the way energy is structured, viewing dimensionality as a component of structure along with size, scale, position, etc. If, as I suspect, awareness is a property of energy, then even the mind can be fully encompassed in the universe. Mostly, energy seems to be the most persistent and pervasive thing encountered along the spectrum of extrapolation or reduction. I would hope that anyone critical of my inclination to view awareness as an inherent potential of energy will understand that I simply find awareness too fundamental to our experience of existence not to implicit in energy. I think that the obvious complexity of structure found in the human brain and perceptual processes is evidence enough of the difficulty of focusing potential awareness into coherent consciousness. I do not pretend to have a hypothesis for how the structure and organization works, or where in the process proto-awareness becomes awareness or proto-consciousness becomes consciousness. I just see it intuitively in life in the world around us.   

I did not get to this point in my speculation following a straight and direct route, and some of the most interesting and useful things I spent time on were essential to getting me this far, such as a study of dimensionality, part of which I have elaborated on in <a href="http://eyeofparadox.wordpress.com/2007/07/18/explaining-the-different-dimensions/">explaining the different dimensions</a> and part of which I only hinted at in this post -- dimensions of mind. It is a lot to go over and again, too much to really explain inside another topic. We do not truly know what energy is, but it does seem to be pervasive and universal enough to be a base medium that, through structure in manifest, static, dynamic and abstract ways would give us space, time and mind, the three media that encompass existence as we know it. Information and structure both have intimate relationships with energy. Our bodies and our minds can easily be seen as structured energy. We are energy and information forged into a truly dynamic state. With all the universe to show us that energy sustains information, it seems absurd to think it would simply delete information like us. Most of all, I would think that energy organized to the point of self-awareness would somehow be self sustaining. If we could become more complex by one dimension of space-time-mind, I suspect that maybe we would. Of course, that's just me commenting on a mountain of unshared speculation. 



On any given day, a small handful of people find their way to the eye of paradox. Some of them probably just glance at an article to see if it's relevant to the search that brought them here. One or two might actually read something. Once in a blue moon, someone leaves a short comment. Taken all together, I do not see anything to indicate that my words mean much. Is that frustrating? A little. I think it only bothers me because I have so much on my mind all the time, and there seems to be little or nothing I can do with it. I have to ask myself, what am I really accomplishing here? I've said it before, I tend to write in the hope of provoking a little thought, usually because the inspiration to write is interesting in itself. I do not expect anyone else to find the result as interesting; partly because it is hard to capture a thought perfectly in words. I am not a thousand-word-a-minute typist and yet I seem to think a million miles a minute. I am not a linear thinker. My thoughts are more like a library in a hurricane. I have never really been able to explain it, but it's what I mean when I talk about higher-dimensions of thought. The problem with that terminology is that we would all probably assign the dimensions differently, based on the way we think. I suspect that a lot of us think things out in words as a general rule, that good old internal dialogue. I have one, but it's only one part of how I process information. 

I think that most of what I think cannot really be put into words. Seriously, I find it easier to think in worlds. Every instant my brain is processing sensory data to assemble an endless stream of consciousness that ties what I perceive in the moment with things I have perceived in the past, things I imagine, things I have conceptualized, things I have analyzed, things I have articulated, things I intuit and things I have only imagined. I have this notion that I ought to be an author because stories come to me in bursts of instantaneous thought. The problem is that it takes so long to fully articulate one I will have conceived of a thousand variations in the time it takes to block out the basics of the one I started with. The sheer number of options and variations overwhelms me. I don't find it surprising, however. This is what our brains evolve to do; in life we only get one chance to get anything right, and there are a lot of times when a mistake will cost you your life. When faced with a challenge, we automatically engage the imagination and run through as many simulations as our intelligence and attention allow. A good view of the future requires at least seven dimensions of thought. Our base line of reference is four dimensional (working in three spatial dimensions and one temporal dimension) and we have to be able to project that image forward to assess the consequences of our actions through to positive, neutral and negative outcomes. 

The future is not on a straight line. Neither is the past, really. An individual has no problem seeing history as a line running back through events, but there is such a line for every person and every object involved in every interaction. The past that we perceive is not the only past. For any given instant, there is a conceivable alternate path leading up to it, though usually the only people who are aware of this are people involved in reconstructing events. To a lesser degree, anyone who mulls over the days of their lives will notice the variable paths within the repeating cycle. You can stop, while walking down the street and suddenly put yourself on the other side of the street in some memory. It is one of the reasons we like routine. The more times we go through a sphere of activity, the better we understand the possibilities of acting in that sphere. We use it to maintain a hypersphere of potential activity. We use something similar in the mastery of our own bodies. At any given moment, there is only one position we can be in, but we are aware of all the positions we can move to just in the limits of our own bodies. In a sense, you could say that this is the real difference between the physical nature of something and the spiritual nature. We can only ever see one instance of an object, but that one instance contains the potential of every instance of that object. When you can look at an old man and see the little boy he once was, that is a very spiritual perception. 

The funny thing is that we have run into this same thing in quantum physics, the notion that things have potential that exceeds what can be manifested at any given point. In the mind, we can hold onto everything at once, seeing nothing but aware of it all, and pull whatever we want into focus in an instant. I really don't find it surprising that reality is pretty much the same way. We work constantly to bring the world into focus, we are in a constant process of realization, learning about changes in the world and updating our own internal representation accordingly. This is how we maintain our grip on the universe, and also how the universe maintains its grip on us. Or, this is how we maintain our grip on ourselves. This is a good spot to focus on if you take the question "who am I?" seriously enough. This is where I ended up after years of asking that question in an attempt to determine if it was who I am or what I am that makes me "me". I came to the same conclusion the characters in the Matrix did, the body cannot live without the mind. Perhaps that is an indication of gestalt consciousness, an indication that the mind is more than the sum of the body's parts? I am still thinking on that. In the meantime, while I find myself in the universe's grip, there is an omniverse of information in my grip. I am holding the universe in a firm mental grip, but at the same time I am holding on to many, many more in my thoughts. Of course, I might just be apprehending the possibilities of the universe that would be found in higher dimensions. 

What kind of sense organ would be able to perceive higher dimensions? I do it in my mind constantly, so I would be inclined to say the brain is that sense organ, as I rush along in the wake of intuition, chased by thoughts of perception being our key to acting in our environment. I grasp all of the implications of movement in higher dimensions of space and time and cannot keep up with the possibilities that seem to open themselves up. I am riding on an epiphany, a realization of a universe that contains infinite potential. What kind of words could begin to describe it? I struggle to find them, even now. I struggle to find the time to think things through enough to achieve a less dizzying perspective. This is my true field of study, and all I can do is stand at the threshold and stare into it longingly. The irony is, we're all at this threshold. It's kind of like the best kept secret, because it's hidden in plain sight. I think the only reason I noticed it is because I am too. 
 




