This is not a flame or a criticism. Everyone is free to disagree with me or chime in as they see fit, but I have to contest \blue{What?} on this, again. He asserts that it is useless to speculate or postulate or even just free associate or abstract about a topic. Except in the case where you are presenting an arguement that proves itself to be true, you might as well turn in your brain and your thinking priveleges, because you're just wasting time and energy. 

That is like asking an author to skip all the steps of conceiving, planning and executing a novel and just produce the final manuscript (flawlessly) from the start. \blue{What?} does not seem to possess a capacity for abstraction and free association that is necessary for anyone, especially scientists, to formulate a conceptual understanding of circumstances and events and devise an appropriate perspective on the problem from which to abstractly model the functions and parameters that will define the equations, arguments and propositions of a theory in the form of a testable experiment. 

In addition, \blue{What?} requires us to dismiss ideas out of hand indifferent to the fact that they are part of the legacy we've inherited through language and culture, ignoring the way in which we are all (including him) influenced by them and the manner in which we respond to and employ them. Science condemns what it terms as superstitious thought, because the art and practice of science was persecuted by political powers that established their authority on claims to exclusive access to the spiritual powers and metaphysical truths. Science has not and can not abolish superstition, it simply calls it such and waves it away. This is in spite of the fact that the majority of people sincerely believe in God, spirits, souls, life after death... including a significant percentage of scientists. It is foolish to pretend that the concepts and arguments of superstitious thought can simply and successfully be ignored. A true scientist cannot afford to make assumptions about the unknown, and in areas where an influence or phenomenon is suspected, he has to address it in his conceptual approach or else admit that he is introducing a model that is flawed \i{in his own understanding}.

This is why science limits itself to answering what and how questions and restricts itself to the study of material, self evident phenomena. 

A great deal can be learned about the mind simply by observing how it goes about solving problems and resolving conflicts. 

We can deduce, from the existence so many "self-sustaining" beliefs that the mind is conscious of its own existence and is concerned about ensuring its own survival, even apart from the physical context in which it initially finds itself. This is an incredibly significant observation, and it applies to most of humanity. Even more important, in cases where the mind cannot convince itself of the importance its existence, the necessity of its suffering, and the siginficance of its destiny, it can become self destructive. When the mind faces the prospect of certain destruction (as it does in moments of unbearable and inescapable sufering), when the mind perceives that it is trapped, it will pursue the only escape available to it. Suicide in sentient beings is utterly irrational, and yet, the mind somehow senses the prospect of safety and survival in retreating into oblivion. There are many ways in which the mind preserves itself by embracing oblivion. What is even more interesting is the number of physical mechanisms that have evolved to "protect" the mind (in addition to those that merely protect the brain). In this thread, I am sure a good sized list can be assembled, but we can include the effects of the dying process observed in cases of natural and near death, the responses to overstimulation, understimulation, sensory deprevation, trauma displacement, temporary insanity... Oblivion is useful to the mind, embraced by the mind, and employed or outright exploited by the mind. The reason for this, I suspect, is because oblivion is innate to awareness, what we can call zero-awareness or zero-dimensional awareness. Could it be significant that awareness in it's least active and most passive state would naturally reduce itself to a particle, a mathematical point? 

For the benefit of participants like \blue{What?} I would like to take a moment to explain what it is that I am doing here in my posts. I am not engaging in the formulation of hypotheses in accordance to scientific method. I am engaging in \i{paradigm shift} the consideration of ideas and concepts in accordance to how they relate to and effect one another. In science and philosophy it is essential to recognize and formulate a context in which phenomena occcur, and the result is a paradigm. That might not be the dictionary definition, but that is the sense in which I am using it here. The general paradigm of science is that things have an innate physical existence, or are embodied in a physical context from which information can be extracted, like mathematics, that is directly dependant on and consistent with their physical origins. That is a singluar and limted paradigm and the problem with it is that it is ultimately static and does not account for the dynamic evidenced in the transformation of the universe that is constantly occuring. 

To pick a specific example of paradigm shift, let's look at what we call energy. We don't know what it is. We postulate the existence of energy on the basis of its effects, theorizing that energy is responsible for all changes in state. An equation is, at its heart, a representation of this. The equation defines two states, generally distinguished from one another by time and expressed in variables constraining the scope of the transformation or translation at hand. Energy is derived from an equation by observing and measuring the nature and scope of changes that occur in the relationships of static variables, mass, distance, time, vector, et al. In many cases, energy can be derived by breaking down a static variable, such as mass or force. Upon looking at all the ways energy can be integrated with and abstracted from structure, many people have concluded that all things arise from and are energy and the physical universe simply a by-product of the ways in which energy can be structured and how that structure determines the behavior of energy. That leaves us with two perplexing questions, where before we had one. What is energy and what influences and constrains energy to produce structure? Of course, we arrive at this point oblivious to the fact that we have lost track of an important contributor to this mystery. Information. Without changing the nature of existence at all, we have transformed the physical universe into a universe of energy and information, a mental universe. That is a paradigm shift. 

Please forgive me for the long and serial posts, but it does take a bit of wind to make a point sometimes and space in these posts is limited. 

My previous post was in part a clarification but I realized there is one more step to go. Inlcuded as an example of paradigm shift above is what amounts to an observation. It is an observation I have made and which others before me have made. It was on the basis of such an observation that I took a serious interest in pursuing the possability of phychic phenomena. 

In my initial post I pointed out a group of legetimate phychic phenomena, awareness, will, intuition, thought, and emotion. These are legitimately phenomena intrinsic to the psyche. The fantastic phychic phenomena of telepathy, esp, telekensis or psychokinesis, teleportation and derivitaves that could be classed as magic phenomena would depend on one thing, something implicated in the paradigm shift I elaborated above. We already accept the transformation or translation of matter into energy and vice versa as possible consequences of quantum mechanica and general relativity, but if there were also a legitimate mechanism for the translation of energy into information and vice versa then we would have a paradigm amenable to psychic phenomena. So far, we only have examples of information derived from the observation of matter and energy and the host of structures that result from their interaction. That means that at present pure information exists only in the context of thought, removed from nature to the degree that consciousness is considered to derive from physical phenomena. The ability of the mind to manipulate information has to be taken as clearly established in the capacity for coherent thought, so it would follow, if pure information can influence the disposition and structure of energy, psionics becomes possible. 

How probable would be another issue, but it could be explored from that point. The current limit of psychic influence on reality is the manner in which objects conceived of in the mind are constructed in the world through physical action. It would not be surprising if that was easier than trying to impress changes on the world through direct psychic action, and can account for the absence of such abilities in a technological society in a universe where such abilities were possible. The simplest solution is generally the one employed in nature. At present, knowledge is the only psychic derivitive we have devised physical tools and machines to transmit, implement, exploit and influence each other with,  but those tools and machines are growing more and more sophisticated and the range of information formats we can employ has grown. There is no question that these things have a psychic impact on us, if not the world, and in that you have a basis for computers as psionics machines. The applications John Thiel has invited us to speculate on can only be derived in a case where an energy-information equivalence can be established, tested and sustained in a scientific fashion. Until you have managed this paradigm shift, you would not have had a criterion upon which to model an experiment. I know that I lack the resources to pursue the matter beyond this point alone, so I heartily invite others to take it up if they see fit. Me, I will continue to ponder the possibility, free associating and refining my perspectives to see if I can clarify the paradigm any further.  