Returning to this post, I noticed that the word "magic" can be replaced by the word "God" and it manages to make the same point. A few related terms might need to be adjusted for context, but the parallels are blindingly obvious. 

Re: Do you believe in magick?

This thread has grown to the point where I almost hesitate to contribute. I can only claim to have read half of it. My first thought, however, is that it doesn't matter how you spell it... it is how you define magic that matters first. It's pretty clear by this point, however, that people are never going to agree on a definition of magic, but I will posit a general theme: magic is a means or method of influencing reality in a non-material, non-mechanical way. The general idea is that there are ways of being or acting beyond the rational-linear material based principles accepted as scientifically viable. 

If you believe in the mind, the spirit or the soul, you are already on the side of magic. You might not support the concept of magic, but you are subscribing to the existence of invisible or intangible things as being real and powerful. Note, there is a distinction between the mind as I used it here and the mind as it is used in scientific and medical contexts. Speaking scientifically, the mind is the operating system and programs running in an active brain--in which consciousness is an illusion created by the activity of the brain and self awareness is the cruelest joke in all of nature. The ultimate lie. 

The next thing I'd like to point out is that there is a general flaw in the concept of Reality. Reality is not, scientifically, an absolute. In light of quantum mechanics, nothing exists in a concrete state until it is confronted explicitly and "measured". A simpler way of putting that is that "reality" is created by interaction, whether at the level of atomic particles or macroscopic entities like our selves. I like to put it this way, "Reality is created and sustained by participation." There are no absolute facts. All facts are a product of measure, and measure in natural terms is simply relational activity. Objective measure, which is the basis of all science, is a product of human invention and thus only as valid as the human beings who employ it. 

What could be more like magical thinking that imposing our own concepts and structures upon existance and calling that Reality?

Don't ask, "Do you believe in Magick?" You might as well ask, "Do you believe in ANYTHING AT ALL?" Because, the essence of magic (and it's an art, like music, so don't quibble about the spelling!) is belief. Unlike religious belief, which is properly called faith, magical belief is not passive. In wicca, the embodiments of divinity and the powers of creation are not idle figureheads playing powergames with our minds. They can be entreated to actively intervene in the course of reality, in part because the underlying belief system does not exclude the possability out of hand. A less daring individual might regretfully subscribe to a less demanding belief in "reality" and conclude that seemingly miraculous things can only happen when the necessary principles are scientifically described and harnessed mechanically (or electronically)... but for the average person science is as much a matter of faith as religion. The average person has neither the time nor the inclination to discover and understand the principles behind our technological marvels. 

The foundation of magic is this. You don't have to understand how it works in order for it to happen. You do have to know how to access and operate it to some degree, but that process is experiential and experimental. You grow into it. It's an art. 

Do you believe in Art?

forum post 122605