A long and wondering thread, but as yet several things have not been addressed. I'll skip the usual boiler plate about universal conceptual definition... most of us already understand that a clear discussion depends on establishing the meaning of terms and concepts. 

Psionics can loosely be considered the study of psychic phenomena, those things that originate in or are of the psyche. By classic definition, the psyche is inclusive of the soul and mind, neither of which can be scientifically proven to exist and remain as observed phenomena in association with the function and activity of the brain and extended nervous system. 

The mind and soul find their "home" in the spiritual realm, among other invisible, intangible truths like awareness, understanding, intuition, emotion and apprehension. 

The mind is the quintessential psionics machine. It is a complex structure of perception and interpretation which focuses awareness into understanding. The brain, on the other hand, is the fundamental computer. Some consider the mind to be nothing more than that computer's operating system, and honestly there is a parallel. However, the fact is that the mind--or the soul, if we want to embrace the entire concept of the psyche--also happens to be the operator of that computer. 

From my stand point, an artificial psionics machine would require first, the capacity for awareness, and second, the capacity for self awareness. I feel that this would invite the third thing necessary for a machine to possess that quality we experience as beings: will. 

Awareness and will are the fundamental psychic abilities. The function of awareness and will are what enable a conscious, rational mind to assume control of and utilize the neurological structures through which thought is translated into action. It is a phenomenon that can be observed and studied, but which continues to defy scientific understanding. 

I am indifferent to arguements about magic and miracles. Our basic existence is about as magical as you could ever want. It is the embodiment of the magical notion "mind over matter". Existence is a subjective condition, and that suggests that a purely objective perspective cannot encompass the truth about ourselves or existence. That possability is excluded by objectivity. That is the paradox of it all. 

I will point out, however, that whatever the mind is, it does in fact exist in this univers, it does in fact interact with this universe, it is in fact the very thing in which our entire association with the universe is contained. We don't live in the world. We live in the image of the world that is created in our minds, by virtue of the conscious and unconscious interpretation of our perceptions. The only thing that makes the world real to us at all, the only thing that distinguishes it from dreams, is the constancy and continuity of the construct itself and our interaction with each other within it. 

We are the only things in existance capible of perceiving a thought, a feeling, a dream. We are psionics machines. We will not build machines capible of transmitting thoughts, because we eschewed that ability ourselves, and would have to embrace it again in order to replicate it. Science will have to embrace the mind, and even what the mind itself has chosen conceptually to represent itself--the soul--before "psionics" can ever be more than a dream. We need to come to grips with the psychic abilities we already, needfully, possess, before we can entertain the possabilities we apprehend within ourselves.

Does that give you pause? Did I just suggest that there might be some truth to such things as telepathy and telekinesis? There is as much proof as science requires. The universe is built on a foundation of invisible, virtually intangible forces. Gravity, magnatism, electricity, and the nuclear forces are virtually incomprehensible to us, but science recognizes them. Science has found them at the root of everything. The mind exists in respect and relation to those same forces. Somewhere, somehow, on a quantum level, the mind can exert direct influence on those forces, or products of those forces, to impel our bodies to action. You have to accept that as a fact, or the question of existence ultimately becomes moot. The mind is our interface with the universe, with the construct upon which reality is founded. There is no question of belief here, because to question this is to simply examine what you already know. What we think of as knowledge is actually a creation. It is a process of translating what each of us understands individually into representations that can be shared universally. A process of defining impressions, impulses, sensations, emotions... thoughts... and communicating them. 

If we all were truly psychic beings, would it be so strange that the protocol for telepathy would be "sharing a dream"?