Privacy, Rights and Responsability

I have always placed my faith in the reasonable and responsible use of personal, private and identifying information by businesses and government. Though I may often sound like I am critical of the systems we use, it is not the system itself I am usually worried about, but the way any system can be manipulated and exploited. So, when I think about the information stored, in any form, by business and government, I am mostly worried about individuals who have no respect for the welfare of others. The threats any information system faces include loss, theft and mismanagement.

There are many ways that vital information can be lost, and the modern information systems have provided some excellent methods to protect and preserve data, which is essential. In the old days, the best you could do to secure your private data was to keep important papers in a fire/water proof safe at home, backed up by duplicates in a security deposit box. There will always be a potential risk of accidental or catastrophic data loss, but at least now data can be backed up in multiple secure locations in a variety of secure formats.

Among the ways for vital information to be lost is for it to be stolen, but when that happens, it is not enough to have copies safely tucked away, because anyone willing to steal vital information is also liable to misuse it, and this is the most frustrating threat. Theft of information can occur in many ways and for many purposes. For example, when a company sells information about its clients to another company, it might not seem like theft, but for the people whose data has been sold, it is still a violation of trust and privacy. At the other end, we have espionage and identity theft, which can destroy businesses, governments and individuals with the damage done by the misuse of that information.

The most insidious threat, however, is information mismanagement. The corruption or mishandling of vital data can result in the loss of property and services, valuable data and legitimacy. The movie, "The Net" shows a frightening example of deliberate information theft and mismanagement, but many of the examples shown in the movie can result from negligence, such as prescribing the wrong medication or misfiling of criminal reports. The example I can call on from my personal life involves automatic bill payments for services that were not turn off when they were supposed to be, when I moved out of a rental home. When the bills for the month after I moved out hit my account, I was unable to prove that those services were turned off or dispute the charges.

Bea makes a good point about how important it is to be educated about "computer basics, internet knowledge, and information/identity theft" and how vulnerable we are the instant we connect to a public network. It is very difficult for any of us to comprehend the risks, and even when you consider that information criminals probably make up a very small proportion of Internet users, individually, we are always outnumbered and often out thought by them. The biggest danger is the fact that these criminals are working in their element; we're like little kids playing blissfully ignorant and unprotected in a pedophile's backyard! 

I am reminded of something I wrote about crime and criminal behavior arising whenever a person feels they have more to gain by breaking the rules... probably in ethics or my current sociology class! The point is, all of the threats Anissa has described are the result of deliberate action on the part of someone who has no regard for the people he or she is hurting. Obviously, people of poor character, lacking in integrity, are a threat wherever they happen to be, inside or out. However, hacking in from the outside takes a bit more skill and a certain level of technology. These days, many companies require their employees to complete a questionnaire that evaluates their personality, and this can help them identify job candidates who are more likely to become disgruntled or neglectful in a way that could compromise their job performance. Do any of you think that a business's need to insure the security and integrity of its operations justifies the use of personality profiling techniques, or is this just another way that information about a person can be used against them?

Our personal, private information can be used against us in more ways than mere identity theft. This is a concern that has prompted many people to oppose the creation of a national identity card. The fact is, as much as people seem to conform to a social standard, most people only do so on a professional or superficial level. In order for a few hundred million strangers to function as part of one system, we have to conform outwardly to some common standard, but we cherish our individuality and our privacy allows us to express ourselves and pursue our own interests. What happens when we have no privacy, when there are files detailing all of our quirks and flaws? When the means exist to identify the "perfect" candidate for every job, what happens to all the imperfect people? 

Good questions, Heather!

There are now companies that are providing an identity theft protection plan.  Do you feel this type of service would be useful? I tend to agree that these services are a bit, well, exploitive is a harsh word, but definitely opportunistic. I do think that they are useful, though, in as far as providing a way to resolve identity theft issues. Depending on how the service worked and how effective they are at resolving issues, for example, the way some credit card companies hold unusual transactions for verification works to prevent credit theft. Of course, that can backfire on the customer since people often make unusual purchases while traveling or changing jobs, or even when their kids go to college. The other side of the question is how secure the protection service databases are!

Do you think that the larger companies such as Target or Wal-Mart are more reliable in regards to security than a random online store? I think that all businesses are concerned about security, because failing to provide adequate security for client information can ruin a business. A larger business can certainly afford better security than a small start up, but there are many cheap and effective ways to protect sensitive data, the simplest is isolating the data from public networks. Some types of information, particularly data that is stored exclusively for internal use, should be maintained on stand-alone or limited access systems. By using proper firewall technology, controlling access physically and electronically, and training staff in proper security protocols, a small business can be every bit as secure as a major institution. The key word, really, is reliability. Reliable job performance makes for reliable security.

It is an odd state of affairs when the information you need to share in order to make purchases and receive essential services also makes you vulnerable to attack. Protecting yourself can be nearly impossible, because you don't really have the option of not sharing that information with businesses and institutions, and you have no control over where that information is stored or how it can be accessed. To add insult to injury, if your information is obtained and used illegitimately, you can still be held accountable for the debts and misdeeds of someone who has stolen your identity. Worse, victims of identity theft are liable to be suspected of pretending to have had their identities stolen to escape their debts. On the other hand, the threat of identity theft makes a wonderful deterrent to using credit!

Too bad you can't really survive these days without bank accounts and credit, now that electronic payment has become so common and convenient. The question I, and many other people I know, worry about is what can happen if our desire for a secure system ends up forcing us to surrender our civil rights or our privacy. 

_What rights to privacy do people have when using the Internet at home? Are there limits to their privacy rights? Do those same rights and limits exist at work?_

Well... it isn't hard to think of things that make this a difficult question to answer. To answer that question, you have to look at things like the potential for harm, and balance that against freedom. It is a question about individual responsibility and because there are individuals who are not responsible -- who are in fact quite the opposite -- we all end up having to be policed. That is not an ideal situation at all. I think that we do have rights to complete and total privacy, to the same degree that we hold ourselves responsible for our own thoughts, feelings and actions. If the choices we make are devoid of respect for others and responsibility for ourselves, we do not have the right to call ourselves adults, plain and simple. This is what rights are really about, the things we are allowed to have and do, or even be, because we are mature enough to respect each other and be responsible. If we are not that mature, then our rights must be curtailed in order to allow someone who is responsible to hold us accountable. We take it for granted that people grow up and can function in society. Not everyone does, and not every one can. We all need certain things to be able to grow up and fully mature, and some of these things are hard to get on our society.

In the world we live in, we have no way of establishing who is responsible and mature, and we do not have the resources to deal properly with people who are not. That means that we are always going to be treated like children who have to be told constantly how to behave, and like children we have no guaranteed privacy. Whatever privacy we enjoy will be based on the rules and regulations of our society and our jobs. If we follow them, we will not be punished, if we don't, our reasons for crossing the line will always be suspect. I know the question addresses internet use at home and work, and the difference there is pretty obvious. Each job will have a different policy regarding the use of business resources for personal reasons. A certain amount of flexibility is necessary, in order for workers to remain healthy and productive and in some cases, creative. A company has the right to monitor job performance, and if a person can goof off online all day and still, somehow, manage to fulfill their job duties, the company benefits. People work to live; if you can't have a life, what is the point of working? Our society and our employers have the right to ask us to be responsible, and we have the right to expect privacy, liberty, opportunity, and all those other things that give us enough control of our lives to be responsible for them. 