Glass Idol

The background was produced by subjecting a color gradient to an experimental series of filters. The idol began as a pencil sketch scanned and cleaned digitally, then rendered and subjected to manual filter manipulation to produce the glass appearance. 

abstract element study 012

A return to the original aes approach, this image was in part a test to see if I could remember how I did the original effect, and in part to serve as a background in a web image. I never did the picture this background was for, but I still have this... and this gives me ideas for things I might do in the future.

abstract element study 011

This illustration was an attempt to produce a more detailed, cleaner and clearer representation, and is a bit closer to the original sketch in detail. However, it was still fell short of the intended image. In some ways, I prefer the luminosity of the original attempt, but this version could probably survive the addition of the required detail much better. If I attempt to do the illustration again, I might combine elements from aes-010 and aes-011.

abstract element study 010

While not part of the previous aes series, following abstract illustrations adopted the established naming convention. In this case, the work is an illustration of an abstraction: a model of existence. The image was based on a pencil sketch of a divided sphere which was a little more detailed than either of my full color illustrations ended up being. Sadly, without the text to accompany the illustration, the model really is nothing more than an abstraction and a study in technique.

Demoness

Pencil Sketch. This was one of a series of sketches I did for this character... Yes, she's nude. They all were. Be mature and remember that it's art... apart from that, I usually do the initial sketch as a nude to help me get a feel for the anatomy that is later covered up by whatever costume I settle on.

Character Sketch: Abyss

Colored Pen & Ink - Abyss, Morgan Eve Wildmuir. 

Character Sketch: Eclipse

Colored Pen & Ink - Eclipse, Morgan Erin Wildmuir. A Malkavian vampire and ancestor of Abyss...

Character Sketch: Selene

Pen & Ink - Selene. A Gangrel vampire and retainer of Eclipse...

