WEEK 3 - DQ #1
 
Due:  Day 3 (Thursday, March 13, 2008)
 
How do you define validity and accuracy? What is the difference between the two terms?
 
Normally I would not take it upon myself to define terms except to clarify the way I am using them in the context of a particular bit of writing; in most cases I strive to understand words I encounter in both their contextual use and by their dictionary definitions. In general, I would define validity either in terms of logical soundness or legitimacy while accuracy would be defined in terms of how precisely or to the point a thing is described, represented, transmitted, translated, etc. There are some similarities in their use and fuction, such as determining how reliable information is; the thing that makes them different is the type of situations in which they can be applied. For example, a test can be very accurate and yet produce results that are not valid. A forgery can be a perfectly accurate replica of an original, but it does not have the validity of the original. A person who purchases a forgery by mistake does not have a valid claim of ownership of the original. A scientist can be considered a valid source by virtue of his area of expertise, but if he distorts his findings and supports it with inaccurate data, he would be considered an invalid source by virtue of his unsound or inethical methods. 

WEEK 3 - DQ #2
 
Due:  Day 3 (Thursday, March 13, 2008)
 
What has been your previous experience with working on a team?  What role(s) do you typically play within a team?  How do you usually handle conflict with other team members?
 
I have grown up playing team sports and working in groups toward a common goal. I was a member of the drama club for half the year each year that I was in high school. In every job I have had, I have been part of a team, formally or informally, sharing responsabilities and duties in a collaborative effort. In most cases, I am playing a supporting role but in that role I strive to lead by example, excelling in my own tasks and encouraging others to succeed. When conflict presents itself, I remain focused on the task at hand, channeling any negative feelings into doing the job quickly and efficiently and when the opportunity presents itself, approach the other party to see if the matter can be resolved amicably. If the problem cannot be settled in discussion, I suggest inviting a peer or supervisor to mediate--or if the matter is a violation of policy, I bring the matter up with the appointed arbitrator. Most of the time, however, I strive to be attentive to the moods and circumstances of people around me and do what I can to prevent conflicts from arising, either by anticipating problems and heading them off or by pointing out the symptoms I can see to someone in a position of authority within the group. 

Even though I have never held a managerial position, I have given the prospect some serious thought; many of the things I considered were the same as Michael listed. Another thing I did, though, was to look at what a manager--or any group leader--does and what it means to be in charge. Most people are naturally capable of taking responsibility for things that are within their ability to do, but in a situation where the job being done is beyond a single individual's ability to get done, the division of responsibility requires oversight--someone has to determine the best way to split up the task and ensure that each part of the task is completed to meet the overall objective.

In order for any part of a task to be done properly, the person responsible for it has to have the resources and autonomy, or the authority, to get it done. The failure of any part of the task, while partly the responsibility of the person charged with it, is also a failure on the part of the overseer. From this, I concluded that a successful manager is someone who can 1) understand the big picture, 2) delegate authority, 3) communicate, 4) coordinate, and 5) motivate, or convey to subordinates an understanding of how their effort contributes to the big picture.

The biggest lesson, I found, was to understand that the authority a leader has is directly proportional to the responsibility inherent in a given task. The greater authority of a leader is only marginally greater than that of any subordinate, once the task is delegated; the leader's job is to delegate authority and responsibility in equal measure, monitor and support those delegates, and ensure that each contribution fulfills the needs of the task. A leader works in partnership with and is the linchpin of the group. Thus, to my way of thinking, leadership moves toward the center of the action, not above it, and the proper use of authority distributes the power of an organization, rather than concentrating it in one individual.

I have seen so many examples of coworkers acting like children in their subordinate roles, then turning around and acting like parents when taking on supervisory roles; it almost seems as if the behavior reflects the way they perceive their responsibility--or whether they feel that their responsibility comes with a degree of authority or autonomy.

You caught my attention when you said, "Some managers are better suited for the position to lead and some are not. Whether or not the manager had a degree did not make a difference." A statement like this strikes a chord that resonates loudly, because it can be applied on a grand scale as a self evident truth. This is not just a comment on leadership, though it is equally true that while a person might find themselves in a position of leadership, the position itself does not impart the ability to lead. This statement speaks to the matter of ability itself and asks us to reevaluate "qualification" as an institution in contrast to "capability" in a human being. As a race, we have tried to quantify capability in a reliable fashion, and to date we have not succeeded. In truth, we go through a great deal of effort to discover our own capability, and to prove that capability. When we are fortunate, circumstances allow us to demonstrate our capability, and if we are exceptionally fortunate our capability might even be recognized. The rest of the time, we are caught between the apprehension of our own potential and the frustration of never realizing it, of being overlooked and taken for granted. In some cases, we even feel the agony of that potential wasting away, untapped. I find it both sad and appalling that it is so common for people driven by ambition, the desire for power and prosperity, to climb their way to the top without cultivating that potential and becoming worthy of the position they sought without regard or respect for the responsibility that comes with it. You are correct that the skills and abilities of leadership are important and a leader should be able to use them effectively, but for that to actually happen people need to understand that true authority rests in the hands of the person who is equal to the responsibility that comes with it. To do, or allow, anything else is neglect.

There is actually a flip side to this that has always concerned me; we are already very close to living in a world where nothing less that expertise is sufficient to do the job. Now, I do not object to that in principle, but the fact is that expertise does not spring from thin air. No one starts out able to cook or build bridges, and some things like this can only be learned by doing them. When you combine the fact that most people devote the best part of their day to the job they can get, a situation arises in which no one can ever hope to get the job they really want. So, I am never going to tell a person who tends to break a few eggs he or she'll never be allowed to cook. But again, that is the flip side of what Douglas is talking about here. People do have aptitudes and affinities for certain kinds of work. The system just needs to be more effective at identifying that potential and developing it. Of course, what I am talking about here is opportunity, and from all I have seen of the world, opportunity is a rare species of bird that all too often disguises exploitation.

Think of all those people you are training, the time and effort they put into a degree in some field that has nothing to do with the job they have been hired to do. The fact that you are training them for a job in an entirely different field sort of suggests that they could not get a job in the field they trained for in the first place. Why? Plain and simple, they have to have a job. What a person wants to do, what a person invests their time and effort in, what a person works at finding gainful employment doing, does not matter. What people can do does not matter. The only thing that matters is what people can get paid to do. So, it's not just your company's corporate mentality that is at fault. The problem is that the system we created serves the interests of fictional entities driven by market forces rather than the interests of the people who create and sustain that system by participating in it. We are all caught up in it, struggling to find a way to get paid enough to survive being a part of it, and hardly ever stopping to look at what it really is and what it really costs us.

It's an amazing machine we've built and become a part of, a great dragon, the Serpent of Midgard.

In the past decade I have formed the opinion that most of the jobs I've had constituted being paid not to work. When I compare my productivity in the few spare hours of free time I have at home to the hours I spend at work, I have to say that I am so much more productive operating entirely under my own direction toward my own ends than I can be under the restrictions I face at work that I often resent the time I spend at work as a waste of time I can tolerate only because of the paycheck. I have to have some kind of income to survive, so I persevere and do the best I can in the job I've got until I can find a way to get the job I want, the job I can honestly do my best at.

I regret to say I cannot claim to be "intimately" familiar with any one organization; the closest I can come is a company that made a very big impression on me in the space of about nine months. In 1988, I was an intern at a small company that provided custom built desktop computers and internet service. This company was small, with about nine to fifteen employees, each of whom was trained in all areas of operations in an almost apprenticeship style. Only the founding partners in the company held down a specific title with exclusive responsibilities, the rest of the staff rotated from task to task as needed. In one sense, everything was a test. On my first day on the job, I was required to build my own desktop computer, and as the days progressed, I would be assigned new jobs and provided with the resources needed to do them. My supervisor was the V.P. of Operations, and he had a knack for being able to assess an employee's present level of ability and giving them jobs that, while being beyond that level of ability, were within that employee's ability to learn and master using the available resources. What he taught, through the process of setting specific tasks for specific people, was a method of management that he used to manage a workload large enough for a staff ten times the size of ours. He always had the big picture mapped out in his head, and he was a manager who could command like he was leading troops because he always led by example. The office environment was almost unreal for being as laid back as a Saturday afternoon but more productive than the strictly regulated corporate office environments I worked in before that job and since. I can look at what he did, and I can see the planning and strategizing that was always going on. I still do not know how to explain or describe his methods for organizing, leading and controlling, and decision making, though I could probably replicate them myself under the right circumstances. What I do is that he was highly self-aware, he understood people exceptionally well, and this allowed him to design individual tasks and general strategies that allowed a group of four to six people to build and deliver a thousand desktop pc's in six to eight days.

As I entered this class, six weeks after completing courses for my AA in Business, I confronted the material as a reiteration of concepts I have learned and for the most part not yet had the opportunity to apply. In principle, I do not mind reinforcing my knowledge and understanding of these topics; I can appreciate the additional perspective I can gain through their review and discussion. On the other hand, I am not used to the approach taken in this class; the handling of discussion questions and the mandatory summary of the material here are an effective break from the pattern I have become accustomed to during my time at Axia. The techniques I developed for managing my studies in the limited time available to me have not transferred well to this class, as evidenced by the fact that my summary is getting posted late.

Because the material is not new to me, I have found it difficult to focus on the key concepts presented in the reading and discussion questions because I am drawing connections to the lessons I have so recently had concerning management practices and business systems. It is a case of knowing and being familiar with the material and thus kind of missing the point. In my reading, beginning with the origins and evolution of management theories and perspectives, the introduction to classical perspectives of management was more of a review to me. The following sections emphasizing management levels, functions and skills were of more interest, providing a clean, clear, structured breakdown of the principles of management I am already familiar with.

I am already used to distinguishing between strategic, tactical and operational levels and methods of management. I was able to recognize and appreciate the importance of planning, organizing, leading and controlling functions of management long before studying them. Perhaps that simply means that my own experience supports the text, and I give the text credit for recognizing the significance and importance of those functions, or the managerial skills that were also presented. There, again, I feel that I was calling as much upon my own experience and prior study when responding to the discussion question that asked which skill was the most important. I tend to subscribe to the theory that "if the only tool you have is a hammer, all your problems begin to look like nails." There is no singular, superior solution to anything as complex as business, because business is a human endeavor.

I am fortunate in being the type of person who can read the same book over and over and still enjoy it. I see it as an opportunity to spot things I missed the first time around. The only problem is, it's hard to comment on information that is not new to me. It is hard to summarize, because I already get the point and saying anything feels like stating the obvious. Even knowing what it is you probably want to hear, I have to say that summarizing something I already know does not strike me as learning so much as questioning what I have learned--and that's more of a philosophical exercise that results in posts like this one.

To what extent should government attempt to protect people from themselves?

A question like this raises more questions than it answers; it begins with the assumption that government has the right to interfere in the private lives of citizens, that it in fact has a kind of parental role in people's lives--and nothing is further from the truth. Unfortunately, the government has given itself the power to interfere in cases where an individual has been determined to be a threat to himself or others and the majority of people probably support such policies. The purpose of government is to provide for the common good, which can include maintaining armed forces for the defense of the nation, providing for common needs that are beyond the resources of private citizens to provide for themselves such as building roads and maintaining or regulating public utilities. To be precise, the purpose of government is to serve the needs of the people. This is not an easy task, and it involves making endless compromises, and sometimes it seems more expedient to empower the government to control every facet of people's lives. This just creates bigger problems than it solves, such as creating a social atmosphere of irresponsibility. The consequence of empowering the government to protect people from themselves is that it criminalizes human behavior. The government has always been in a position to help people through preventative means or through social investment, but the first thing government cuts back on is social services, health care and public education--the very institutions with the best chance of intervening and preventing people from becoming threats to themselves or others. Even when those institutions and services are properly funded, their effectiveness is seriously degraded by inefficient bureaucracy. I cannot think of anything less qualified to act in the best interests of an individual than a committee. Even when government tries to do what is best for the majority, too many people get left behind. People need to wake up, grow up and take responsibility for themselves, for their own actions, and as much as it is in character for them, they need to take care of each other. A nation of responsible people pulling together is infinitely stronger than a nation of incompetents held together by an iron fist. Such a nation will never come to be under a government with a policy of not trusting its own citizens and legislation that strips individuals of every shred of autonomy.

Douglas has made a strong statement about the dangers of excessive government intervention in our lives, and Susan has brought up the issue of moral decline and the implication that the separation of church and state has contributed to it. The first thing that crossed my mind is that religion is the predecessor of government in the evolution of civilization. Even when someone goes to the trouble to list all the things that individuals can do to upset the peace and harmony of society, I see the creation of an institution empowered to dictate morality as the single greatest threat to humanity. However well intentioned a society might be, the creation of a moral majority is a death sentence to human diversity. There is nothing worse than the projection of group think to the national level. It works for a while, for like-minded people to unite behind a single set of morals and ideals, but when confronted by another nation united by a different but equally valid set of morals an ideals, neither group can tolerate a simple difference in perspective and instead of striving to understand each other, they go to war and attempt to wipe each other out. To be perfectly comfortable in our own understanding of the universe is a weakness none of us can afford. We need to be capable of understanding that the world makes sense from almost any perspective if you take the time to cultivate that understanding. The essential teachings of all religions are the same. The legitimate purpose of all governments is the same. The responsibility of all human beings is the same. We all pay the same price to be here. We should not ask our government to do what we should do for ourselves. No institution should have the power to think for us or dictate how we act.

This is where the discussion becomes more difficult because I can remember a hundred times when I've seen or read reports or simply noticed for myself that the consequence of some government policy has contributed to the causes of poverty, unfortunately I am not able to cite specific instances because I just was not paying enough attention at the time. I can think of just as many, if not more, examples of social injustice that stick in my head from a hundred nights of watching the Discovery or History Channels. Now, I know what a weak position that is for an academic discussion, but I have also lived through it and I connect these things to my personal experience and I think about it and I understand that the problem is not created by the government, it is created by people who simply do not know how to live in the same world together. So I am not about to say that it is the government's responsibility to fix things because I can see that it is our responsibility to fix them. The first step is simply recognizing the true nature of the problem and deciding if we have any interest in fixing the problem. As far as government is part of the problem or a problem in itself, I would say that the answer to that question is found in knowing whose interests the government serves. It should serve the common interest of the people. It should never serve one segment of the populace at the expense of another. The problem we can and should let government take part in solving are problems that face everyone regardless of race, gender, culture, or income--things that are provided to everyone equally, like decent public education or national defense. Things that are of only local benefit should be the concern of local government. When it comes to social problems, we have to be brutally honest about what causes them and we have to get to the root of these problems and solve them as a society, and by that I mean by asking each person to take responsibility for their actions and to participate in the solutions to the problems we create as a society. I am talking about becoming a nation of competent adults... and I know that is not easy. Perhaps the hardest part is simply owning up to the fact that we have made mistakes and accepting that putting things right is simply the cost of those mistakes. Fixing the problem begins with something that takes almost no effort at all--a change of attitude.

I think I should give a little clarification in turn. I did not think you intended to suggest that the government should dictate morals, and if I sounded critical of religion in comparison, that was also not intended. The point I was trying to make is that no institution should dictate morality. In fact, no one, not even God should dictate morality. If it is one's desire to promote moral thought and behavior then the only moral course is to demonstrate moral thought and behavior. The only thing that should dictate morality is moral character, and that can exist only if individuals take it upon themselves to understand what is right and to strive to do what is right. We all know that people are going to make mistakes, and the whole point of religious teachings about forgiveness is meant to give us the ability to forgive people for making mistakes. The thing we have to remember is that people are not born with an understanding of right and wrong. Instead, we are born with the ability to know suffering and joy and to recognize it in others, and as we grow and evolve we observe the effects of our actions and whether they cause suffering and joy, and we have the choice to recognize that the suffering and joy of others is as real and true as our own, and out of that choice we can come to understand the crushing weight of suffering that exists in this world and the uplifting power of joy. The human conscience is born of our ability to balance self awareness with the awareness of others, and the strength of a human conscience is determined by how often we choose to recognize the humanity of the people we encounter. There is a choice we make, whether or not to meet the eyes of a stranger and see a real person inside them. The problem with moral teaching is that it is not enough to be told that something is right or wrong. People need to understand why something is right or wrong, because a rule can never stand up to the diversity and complexity of reality. Reality teaches us that we can do whatever we choose to do, for whatever reason we want to believe, and for every thought and action there is a consequence; if we do not want the consequences to be bad, we have to think about what we are doing. A thinking, feeling, human being should not need to be told what to do; we have been given the ability to figure it out for our selves. Besides, the only time people are ever satisfied with an answer is when figured it out for themselves, when they understand not only the answer but also why it is the answer.

Re: (http://blogs.usatoday.com/ondeadline/2006/10/city_official_a.html)
Wow. What an amazing thread. I had to read through the whole thing and get all the feedback available a this point before making my own comments. To begin with, I agree with the council man  as far as this being a topic that needs to be discussed. It is without question, a serious problem, a problem that might best be put into other terms. The first thing I would ask is, do we really live in a society in which children are not wanted and welcome no matter the circumstances of their birth? This thread began with a criticism of the welfare state, the notion that women are taking advantage of the system to earn free handouts by having more children... but let's stop right there and look at the underlying problem, which is poverty. If you look at women in poverty the world over, what you see is virtually the same, higher birthrates than women with higher levels of education and employment. We like to think of this country as the land of opportunity, but you have to be willfully blind not to see that it is not a land of equal opportunity. A frightening number of people get left behind every day, and for most their only fault has been to be born into poverty. It takes an extraordinary human being to crawl out of the depth of ancestral poverty to scrape together enough education, talent or sheer determination to work his or her way to success. For every success story, there are thousands of unknown tragedies. Those kids that cannot be controlled are not the problem, they are the consequence of the problem. The problem is that there is no place for them in this world. They have grown up with the knowledge that they are not welcome in society, and I do not blame any of them for rebelling. The problem is not created by the government supporting unwed mothers, the problem is created by a society that does not want some people to be a part of it.

It is amazing, almost frightening, how often people take their environment for granted. Of course, for most of human existence, the mess we made was as natural as the world we lived in, and so the world could cope with what we did--most of the time. It is only when you take a large number of us living in a place for too long that you would see damage to our environment as a direct consequence of our living there. It has only been in the wake of the Industrial Age that we have gained the ability to overwhelm nature, to pollute it with things it cannot cope with. The creation of agencies and organizations that work to clean up and protect the environment is actually a pretty huge step for civilization. The EPA might have flaws and limits, but it is actively working on the problem in a way that individuals alone never could. Getting everyone to think and act more responsibly is a social change, something that needs to be cultivated with as much wisdom and integrity as we want everyone to possess. I do not know if there is an answer, a solution that will work for everyone, but I know that we all need to at least learn to ask ourselves the right question.

The problem, or rather the thing, that has brought us to this point is thoughtlessness. Every thoughtless act has a way of coming around to bite us in the back, and maybe that would not happen if we learned to simply ask "what am I doing?" when our own thoughtless acts occur. There is little hope of anyone doing the right thing if they do anything without thinking.

As week two progressed, the materials covered pulled me in two different directions. On one hand, I continued to have the feeling of building on an existing foundation as our reading delved into the influence of government on business as part of our study of government agencies and the effects of globalization. On the other hand, as anyone can probably tell from the posts I made in the discussion forums, the question of how much involvement the government has in our lives struck a philosophical chord with me. Because I continue to be strapped for time, getting through all of the material and keeping up with assignments was a challenge I nearly was not up to. In that sense, given the fact that my job is responsible for consuming the better part of my week, the real world is adding a dimension to my education in business. It is a constant reminder of how dominating the world of business can be.

So, with my musings upon the personal impact of the week laid out, let me review the academic impact. The reading starting with chapter 7 on the Regulatory Process was fascinating, and built upon ideas and concepts introduced in my Axia studies of domestic and foreign business, trade, externalities of business and most of all a study of the Federal Reserve System. The introduction to the Administrative Agencies and the discussion question that reinforced the reading was presented in a manner that I found very easy to assimilate. The breakdown of the Regulatory Process started with a look at the reasons for administrative agencies, namely to provide specificity, expertise, protection, regulation and services in response to a recognized problem in society. The functions of agencies, while primarily defined in terms of what the agency was created for, and including varying degrees of rule making, adjudicating, advising and investigating, serve to take vast or complicated problems and address them specifically in a way the Executive, Judicial and Legislative branches of the government are not equipped to handle.

The organization of agencies was presented in a general manner, to provide a general understanding of the structure, composition and chain of authority can exist in administrative agencies. I found that it is necessary to go online and do a little research on agency websites to get a more specific understanding of their organization and activities. However, the more detailed reading in the following chapters was also enlightening, as were the numerous articles featured within them. But again, I did not have time to linger over the details since I had to post discussion responses and coordinate with my team in preparation for the projects that await us in the coming weeks. Hopefully, I will be able to get ahead on Wednesday and Thursday--my weekend--and I will be able to go back and review; this weeks reading is definitely worth another look!

We can only say so much on the topic of God (with or without quotes) in a discussion before it's a discussion in it's own right, but I will say this much: in my post I was emphasizing the point that morality cannot be dictated. It does not matter how much authority or power the dictator has (or presumes to have), the simple act of forcing compliance negates free will, without which many things--including morality--cease to have legitimate meaning. The only thing that can be commanded by force, whether it is force of arms or by the forces of social conformity, is obedience. For that reason, no government or religion is capable of dictating morality; the power of the state or the church might be sufficient to ensure obedience. There is a fine line between expressing an opinion about what is right or wrong and trying to define right and wrong for others. There are many, many things that a majority of people will agree are right or wrong; there is nothing in the universe that says that opinions cannot be shared. At the same time, human opinions are subjective and every one of us has a unique way of looking at the universe; there are too many things that can be good or bad depending on how you look at it. Preconceived notions of right and wrong, good and evil, fair or foul all suffer from the flaw of prejudice, which is judgment without thought. In the absence of thought, the process of critical evaluation, there can be no distinction between good and evil. In fact, one could almost call it abdicating judgment; choosing not to distinguish between good and evil. How moral is that?

I recall frequently hearing that "evil prevails when good men do nothing" and also that "the road to hell is paved with good intentions" or "evil men rarely think of themselves as being evil; if anything they choose to perceive themselves as serving the greater good". What I am inclined to say is that evil is the consequence of choosing not to do good. I have to be realistic, however, about the fact that evil is visited upon people without regard to how good or bad they are. There is no protection against indifference.

However, in answer to the question of whether or not God/the Creator can dictate morality... I'll be blunt. What God/the Creator wants is not relevant. Wanting is fine. Wishing for it is fine. Asking for it is fine. In all those contexts, God promotes morality; first and foremost by being a perfect example. But, even as our Creator, an absolute power undeniable, the act of forcing any behavior from someone compromises their free will. Obedience, again, can be imposed. Morality, however, is meaningful only in the context of free will. When we talk about people doing the right thing, we implicitly mean of their own accord. 

The idea of a moral society is one in which no one must be coerced into participating, in which each person is RESPONSIBLE in their conduct--meaning, no one needs to tell them what to do because they can figure it our for themselves. It is not decided, in the abstract third person. It is decided in every moment of our lives, in our own development of consciousness and conscience. The thing is, very few people decide to be evil, but it arises in the absence of good so when people choose not to be good, not to be responsible, not to care, they flirt with evil. People who commit acts of evil often cry out that they could not stop themselves, clinging to the lie of their own powerlessness to hide from the understanding that the only reason they could not stop themselves was because they did not choose to stop themselves. I do not believe a bureaucracy can protect people from themselves because a stranger's indifference is less than useless to someone who actually needs help.

I do not know of a better way to put it, but... broken people are dangerous. All of the dangerous people I have ever known or heard of were broken. I do not fault anyone for being afraid of them, but I do not understand why it is okay to punish and persecute them and ignore the people and circumstances responsible for breaking them in the first place. I find it hard to forgive society for not trying to mend the people that get broken, for letting them float around lost like loaded guns just waiting for the thing that will trigger them. Mostly, I worry about the many ways that society works to break people, to make them "fit in"

An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure? I don't know if that's the exact saying, but it's similar to the saying "an ounce of pull is worth a pound of push". Even as I make the criticism of the tendency of government to sacrifice the needs of the common public or the future generations, I have to wonder what is driving the government to spend so much in other areas? Is it special interests? Is it simple empire building? Has the government lost sight of it's true purpose? Or have we, as a nation, given our government the idea that we want something else? Are we getting what we are asking for? I do not know. Any system that creates power and authority is subject to abuse, and anyone interested in abusing power has to know they can do more damage if they are in control of that machine. Does anyone else see the irony in that?

I have to wonder if it would be a good thing for business if employees had publicly recorded performance statistics, like professional athletes, and if strong performers were recognized as valuable assets on that basis. It might be a bad idea in the end; the problem with competition based business and economics is that emphasis on high performance is not healthy in the long term. When all that matters is showing the top performance, people can lose perspective about reasonable and acceptable costs. At the same time, having only one measure of success can also be a failing. I would think that serious consideration should be given to determining if the product of a business is an asset to society or if the cost of the product makes it a liability.

Even as I suggested it, I realized that "human assets" would be nearly impossible to quantify. Part of the reason is that human ability extends far beyond the scope of mere profitability. Human potential is infinitely more valuable than money, whether it is represented by cash or credit. The true health and welfare of a society is dependent upon the amount of participation each person has in society and the degree to which individual effort is expended toward constructive or destructive ends. Some of the destructive input is simple negligence, like littering, some of it is predatory, like crime. Some of the destructive input is outwardly legitimate but still unquestionably destructive, such as the creation and collection of debt. If we take the trouble to look, we can find plenty of examples of unprofitable work, beginning with enterprises that are non-profit by design. There are also examples of work that serves only to create wealth or collect resources in the hands of a minority. Finally, there is government, which encompasses mountains of work that is intended to create a stronger, healthier nation, but which is not intended to create any personal wealth--though there have always been people who found ways to profit from the government. Even if our government did not use fiat money, the true purpose of money would still be to serve as a catalyst to unlock the value of human potential. At present, money is the point system we use to determine the value of each person's contribution, and to a limited degree people have the power to dictate their own value in terms of the wage they will accept to do the job they commit themselves to. That is less true for some people who take what they can get because their options in the system are limited. That is the point where quantification gives way to qualification.

Every year I dread doing my taxes, even knowing that I can usually file a 1040EZ on my own if I need to. I do not know if it is just bureaucracy, but needlessly complex tax codes and filing requirements do not instill much confidence in the government. To my understanding, there is no difference between collecting income tax and a protection racket; according to Constitution, the government does not have the right to levy unapportioned taxes, nor does it have the right to tax earnings as if they were profits. Unfortunately, the system was in place long before I came around, with businesses and banks reporting income to the government, and the government has collected taxes or allowed the IRS to prosecute and even imprison people for tax evasion... well, sometimes it's easier to just let the bully take your lunch money. At least with the tax programs and services made possible by IT, the average person has a tool that allows them to navigate the complex intricacies of tax code safely.

I used to complain about the fact that I never had enough money to stay afloat, no matter how much I was earning at a given time. It seems like everything I get, I have to pay up front but when it comes to making money, no matter how I go about it, I always had to do the work up front and wait to get paid. It always seemed like the worst of both worlds, paying up front but always getting paid in arrears. I can not remember the last time I had a job that paid up front, for a commissioned piece of art. In that case, I was effectively in business for myself. For the rest of my life, I've struggled to keep up because I am always a month behind in earnings and a month ahead in bills. Now, through this segment of the class, I can see that the same thing happens in business. Even when a company is paid up front for products and services, most often the business is actually doing the work up front and getting paid in arrears. With credit use so prevalent these days, cash in hand transactions are getting pretty rare, and that puts everyone in a state of "chasing after the dollar" that always feels so hair raising and hectic.

I almost have to laugh at the irony of these posts. I was just fired from my job as a tier two dsl tech today because my average call time "did not meet" the 22 minute call average expected, even though I had the lowest repeat rate and the highest problem resolution rate on my team--on top of that I had the highest customer appreciation rate. So, even though the quality of my work exceeded expectations, the fact that it took an average of 36 minutes per call was enough for me to be let go. As a contractor, I have no voice in the matter and I would know better than to argue the point after the fact, but I still think it unfortunate that the company I worked for was more concerned about statistics that made the call center look good than statistics that prove that the call center is doing a good job. That is a business decision I would challenge at an executive level, and my mentor in all things IT agreed with me when I told him I was available for contract work again.

The sad thing is that this policy was in place in a slightly less draconian form when I was hired, but a new VP decided that cracking down would make him look good. To make things worse, my manager was only recently promoted off the floor and was trying to make herself look good under the new regime. The company hires contractors in droves, puts them through nine weeks of paid training, and then fires them off two or three at a time for what would be minor infractions in any sensible company. Some of the strict, no-tolerance policies make sense, such as using foul language or insulting customers or bad mouthing our overseas call center operatives, but others are harsh for the sake of being harsh, like mandatory overtime. If they had more respect for their staff their retention would be higher and the need for mandatory overtime would not exist. In answer to your question, the short calls can bring down the average call length, but you have to be fortunate to get enough short calls to balance the ones that come from customers with no technical ability and no computer experience--which makes up the bulk of our calls. In terms of actual troubleshooting skill, I am very fast in a hands-on situation, but when it comes to talking an 80 year old using his or her first computer through a complex problem... well, it takes time and patience and persistence. So yes, this is one of those cases where it hurts a company to have management making policy without an understanding of--or consideration for--the realities of the job. As a manager, I will never allow my position to stand in the way of understanding the needs of the job, even if I have to defer to the experience of my subordinates to gain that perspective.

I suppose one has to take a moment to remember that technology is, in effect, the mechanization of technique, so the evolution of business systems starts with the invention of language and accounting in Egypt and Mesopotamia, on through the rise of civilization as we know it. The development of information technology would, in a sense, begin with the printing press and advance a step with the invention of the telegraph, the telephone, the typewriter, and so on. The most startling thing I can think of is that if you go back five, ten, even twenty years, the computer and information systems have already long been established--going back as far as sixty years or more. So when asked to compare and contrast the information technologies of one or two decades past, the changes have been refinements rather than revolutions. The age of electronic information systems set the stage for today's formidable data manipulation tools. Twenty years ago, the technology was simpler in form but more complicated in application. The first compact computers, computers small enough to set on a desk top, were being introduced, though the really powerful computers were still large enough to fill entire rooms. To manage and manipulate a database took the special skills of a computer programmer. Ten years ago, desktop computers--personal computers--had all but replaced mainframes, and computer software had evolved into more user friendly forms, designed with interfaces that allowed experts in other fields to begin making intuitive use of the powerful data management capabilities of computers. In the past five years, improvements in hardware design have made computer technology smaller, faster, lighter, and distributed well beyond the desktop. Today we have bluetooth networking devices that "shake hands" and exchange information wirelessly with each other as soon as their owners walk into a meeting room. We have expert systems that are capable of providing users with many of the same resources a human specialist could. And I have not even discussed the impact on communications. With cell phones and laptops and wireless access points spreading all over the globe, it's a wonder anyone needs to go into an office to work anymore.

Going back all the way to my childhood, the things that always caught my interest were the things that were aesthetically challenging. I think, for a lot of people, half the fun of shopping is exploring an environment that is interesting to move through in search of something of value or use. Beautiful things are not the only thing of interest, but as beauty is in the eye of the beholder, there is so much potential for creative people to express themselves and so many people who are receptive to those efforts. I think that architecture is one of those wonders. I used to drive in to the city or out to different neighborhoods, get out of my car and walk around for hours looking at the buildings, studying the architecture, the landscaping and enjoying the use of positive and negative space, combined with color, texture, and design. On one hand, it was just a nice way to get a little exercise, but I think that my enjoyment came more from exploring an aesthetically interesting environment.

This third week of Business Systems has been full and challenging for me. I found myself doing a great deal more research than the previous two weeks, and running into more detours and dead-ends in the process. Fortunately, between the reading material, the textbook and the university library, I was able to find everything I needed to do my assignments, answer the discussion questions and answer the questions I came up with on my own. This week's coverage of business finance and accounting was very important to me, since I have been tasked with the accounting section of my team paper. The discussion questions did an excellent job of returning our attention to key topics from this week's studies. The DQ's began by asking us why publicly traded companies must report revenue growth, income growth and earnings per share (EPS) every quarter, and following up on the effect that such reporting has on business operations. We also looked at how a statement of cash flows provides useful information that goes beyond income statement and balance sheet data, how net profit and cash flow are not the same thing, and the three categories of assets to be found on a balance sheet. When the reading and discussion questions turned to the impact that advances in information technology has had on business systems, I once again felt a strong connection being made to the foundation of my earlier studies at Axia. The study of financial ratios was quite the opposite, introducing the many ways business financial ratios reveal the health and performance of business. In striving to complete my financial ratios memo, I spent days online searching for clear and reliable industry averages. I found numerous facts and fragments of information that agreed with the text book definitions and ratio formulas, but the university library proved itself the most reliable source for the information I needed to complete the assignment. Prior to this point in my studies, I tended to think of business systems as applications of information technology, so this week has deepened my perspective on how real business systems have become integrated with information technology solutions. Also, this week has improved my understanding of finance and accounting. It has forced me to reconsider my approach to the team assignments.

I too have noticed the "auto billboard" trend and asked myself where the advertisement is going to stop. Advertisement has wormed its way into every possible niche and with very few exceptions the effects are almost noxious. Advertising is so pervasive it's become a new form of pollution clouding the horizons of our very minds. I too go out of my way to ignore advertising, and I will not try any product based upon anything less than word of mouth endorsement by someone I know personally. Occassionally, I will take recommendations from strangers if they give a strong endorsement of the product used in a real circumstance. About the only ads I can tolerate are ones that provide essential information, such as when a movie is supposed to come out, or when an event is happening. If a new kind of drink or something comes out, I might try it once out of curiosity. In the end though, I think that advertisement is too aggressive and that it is invasive and misleading. I would far prefer to have an interactive database I could search through at will to find out everything I want to know about any type of product I am interested in, as well as anything I would want to know about the producer of that product. Of course, I'd kind of like the same kind of resource on politicians too.

I have to say, the games are fun, addicting, entertaining, and all of that, but whenever I think of the amount of time they consume I have to ask myself if they're worth it. I honestly do not know how people find the time to play them and still make a living! I can never keep up with the people I meet in online games because I am always called away by real life. Interactive entertainment has to be one of the most attractive and enjoyable ways to kill time, but I still prefer things that stimulate the imagination, like good old fashioned reading. I think the only way to get that level of stimulation from games is if you happen to be a game designer, and I am always on the look out for opportunities to get into game development. So far, I haven't been able to get a foot in the door.

I have to laugh a bit. I went through a real rough patch a few years ago, and I am still trying to get back onto stable ground. It is almost impossible to get by these days without a cell phone, so even when I was struggling to pay rent and buy food, I was putting money into a cell phone and paying my cell phone bill before anything else--and that was just so that I had a phone number for job hunting and a way keep in touch with my family and friends. I naturally got the cheapest and simplest service I could, so I am still a bit behind when it comes to cell phone features. It was only as I went shopping with a friend who needed to replace a broken phone that I stopped and looked at the features available on today's cell phones. I honestly would not be surprised the cell phone become merged with credit and banking systems, or PDAs become more powerful portable computers with even more astonishing capabilities. I do not think I'll be among the first to buy them though! That's the problem I have always had with the tech driven world; there are so many powerful tools, but they are not much help if you cannot afford them, or if you do not have the time to master them. Technology creates opportunities, but you have to be pretty rich to seize those opportunities when it is an advantage to be able to.

While I have to acknowledge the convenience of bundled technology and services, I still have this reflexive impulse to question the wisdom of integrated service provisioning. I am not sure if the question is one concerned with our growing dependence on technology or the fact that we are seeing an entirely new infrastructure emerge that increases the power of corporate entities over people. In theory, a good invention is a better tool that improves the quality of life, but in practice any tool is a product with a price attached to its manufacture, distribution, sale and use. When that product is bundled with a service it incurs a persistent cost, and when the combined product and service become so prevalent as to become a necessity of life -- as in the case of the ubiquitous cell phone -- we end up in a situation in which we are owned by a product. That might sound ridiculous, but it does happen. The automobile is a fair example of a product that owns you, in the sense that the cost of maintaining, fueling, licensing and insuring a car is compulsory. In a society shaped by automobile use, communities have been physically transformed in a way that makes it almost impossible for us to get by without a car. It is a catch 22, the new emerging products and services create new opportunities, new lifestyles and new jobs but as they reach full penetration they create dependencies that either increase the cost of living or increase the gap between sustainable quality of life and poverty. I take this very seriously, because I know that I failed to enter the job field I would do best in because I could not afford the technology required to establish myself in it. I have an amazing talent for computer assisted graphic arts, but I could never afford the more powerful computers needed to run the software I could not afford and thus could not hone my talent to the level required to stand out among other candidates for computer assisted graphic arts.

I cannot think of the number of times I have heard older people talk about how much easier it is for kids to pick up on new technology -- and by older, I mean pretty much anyone who works full time and keeps a full schedule of responsibilities at home too. As far as I can tell, the real advantage that kids have is more time and energy to spend learning. That is all it takes, really. You just need to have the time to play with the newest gadget, or time to talk with other people who share an interest in the same gadget. If you tell yourself anything else, you just end up intimidating yourself into fearing the latest new thing because it is unfamiliar and over time enough new, unfamiliar things pave the way for something that is completely alien. Of course, by the same reasoning, the best proof there is that technology is not improving the quality of life is the fact that people who work for a living rarely have the time to learn how to use the new time saving technology they are being sold. If I were seriously involved in the marketing and sale of new technology, I would emphasize the not buying a product you do not have time to learn how to use, and then make sure that my product was easy to use and included the most effective learning support available. When I was working in DSL phone tech support, I wanted to cry for all the calls I got from people unable to start using their service with their brand new, first ever computer because they had no clue what to do after turning the computer on!

Of course, there are days when I get the feeling that a disturbing number of people in this world never learned how to use their own brains effectively! I say that with half of an evil, sarcastic grin, but the other half of what I feel is staggering disbelief and pity! I've worked in customer service too long not to realize that time, patience, effective teaching and confidence in learning are all essential parts of solving 90% of problems that pop up, and whoever figures out how to package and sell that product profitably is going to be the richest son of a gun alive!

As digital technology becomes more compact, we are going to see more powerful features squished into handheld devices like the iPhone. I think it would be really nice to be able to transfer recorded television programs onto something like an iPhone to watch during a long train or bus commute. Personally, I have been looking for something along those lines in book readers, but so far a device has not come out that feels comfortable and practical that I could hope to afford! In the end, it's the money thing that usually keeps me from buying anything like this. For the money these wonderful gadgets cost, I would expect to be able to get the features and capabilities I really want, and I've watched my friends buy four of five different things, like a cell phone, a digital camera, a video recorder, a personal voice recorder, a playstation portable and an mp3 player so they have all the things they want, and then they end up carrying all this junk around in their pockets or they have to lug it all in a backpack or purse so they have it all handy. I like the iPhone because it is one device that can do a number of different things, and thus reduce the load... but it's still not the device that does everything!

Week 4 brought us its share of challenges, but compared to finance and accounting this was a week spent on something I have a pretty solid foundation to work with. Returning to the marketing mix in this week's reading, I found many of the same concepts covered in my AAB at Axia were repeated and then expanded upon. The real difference was in the degree to which we explored the topic of advertising as a part of marketing. Advertising is an area I am most familiar with from years of commercial art, designing promotional material, creating ads, working in retail doing various promotions and product placement. In my previous classes, more emphasis was placed upon market research, so I appreciated the slight shift in emphasis of a full marketing plan and integrated marketing communications. Because I do have some history in this area, I can say that my education was strongly influenced by the four P's method of marketing, which has some merits as a process but which I felt approached things from the wrong angle. The more intuitive SIVA method strikes me as a welcome and necessary innovation, an approach that emphasizes the right approach to marketing. That change is but one of many brought on by advances in technology, which have expanded to the point of reconverging into multimedia telecommunications with seemingly limitless promotional potential. I find myself hoping that the shift in promotional methodology will continue to develop in a customer centered fashion, like the SIVA approach, because the net effect of all advertising is disruptive, invasive and wasteful. In a bid for customers, some forms of advertising have literally gone to far, like spamming. No one appreciates the interruption of commercials during their shows on TV or the half hour of commercials that now play before a movie at the theater. The pop-up ads that plague us on the Internet prompt most of us to install pop-up ad blockers that use additional computer resources and slow down browsing. The more I think about it, the more I wish to have either nothing to do with the world of advertising or else change it entirely--and that's too big a job to take on by myself. Anyway, the reading covered a great deal more than I've recapitulated, about the process of marketing and promotion, the methods and techniques of creating and conveying a message that has the desired impact. A random example would be the analysis of what makes a good spokesperson, but these are things I have studied and understand, even if I am not a bastion of proper terminology. I am impressed with how much thought and even science has gone into the art of effective advertising, but I kind of despair at the idea of so much effort being invested in coercion. As for taking all of this to the Internet, well, that's where I've been making my living the past decade, and I've been watching it all happen. It's what they call the School of Hard Knocks.

I had to grin as you described your reaction to pop-up ads! In my own response and in some of the discussion questions, I did not hide my contempt for intrusive advertising, but as much as I do hate things like pop-ups, there really are the odd occasions where the right image or magic word will prompt me to click on the links despite my better judgment! I have enough sense to recognize the underlying profit motive, the fact that everyone needs to make a living, but honestly I have more tolerance for people who find a way to make a living without making the world a more annoying place. The pursuit of wealth for its own sake is problematic enough when it causes people to create useful products and services. At best, I see advertising as a necessary evil, and it's something I have a certain tolerance for, and there are definitely aspects of the industry I find fascinating and even profitable for an artist to work in, but I think there is a better way and I'd work toward finding or creating it if I had the necessary resources and support. That means, I've always known I could make a nice living in advertising, and that I'd probably hate my job most of the time I was doing it! Ah, the irony.

I have found that information that is presented in outline form with just the essential points broken down can be much easier to assimilate and retain than information that is embedded in the body of the text. The outline or tree form is easier to scan and review, which are important steps for me in the reading process. Having a full text to read for context and comprehension are wonderful, but if I have to read a great deal of material in a short time, the material can become muddied and difficult to retain.




















