As a child, I took an early interest in reading. Of course, the things made available to a young child tend to fall under the category of Fairy Tales. Among the first books I remember reading was a collection of classic children's Fairy Tales. These were the original, scary versions, not the ones that Disney candy coated and gave happy endings to. I think I appreciated that. In my own experience, childhood was full of dark and dangerous corners, little cracks that young people could fall into and perish. Mixed in with this kind of harsh reality was the wonderful and fabulous worlds of myth and magic, and perhaps the seeds of my own damnation.

The story at the heart of my childhood is The Little Mermaid by Hans Christian Anderson. This was the story in which I found my first great epiphany. For one thing, it appealed to my feelings of metaphysical displacement, my longing to be transformed and welcomed into a world I could observe but never take part in. In a way, it explained things to me. The price the little mermaid paid to be a part of our world was her voice. A cruel price that denied her the ability to express herself and ultimately resulted in her death. But, the thing that was truly at stake, from the very beginning, was her immortal soul.

In the original tale, the little mermaid endured everything in the hope of attaining an immortal soul. For her, learning that she did not have an immortal soul was the kind of shock I had endured when I was confronted with the anatomical facts that distinguished boys from girls. That little mermaid and I, we had both basically been told the same thing. "You are not real." In our own ways, the mermaid and I both had to face the prospect of not being true. Our reactions were the same, asserting our willingness to do anything to prove that we were true, to save our souls, even if it killed us. The little mermaid allowed the sea witch to use her magic to turn her into a human. I set out to find something that would turn me into a girl.

Part of the price of magic is believing in magic. In the world we live in, that's not an easy thing to do. Believing in pretty much anything is almost impossible these days, it seems. It's discouraged on so many levels that at times it makes me suspicious. Expecting to get results that would be described by anyone who witnessed them as being magical, that is something else altogether. Most authorities would describe that as insane. Unfortunately, while I could see all of that, I had no other hope. Accepting reality required me to be someone I was not. Attempting to "not be" is something I do not recommend trying. Not even for the people you love. Nor for anything in the world. Absolutely not for the sake of your soul.

It is ironic. I can be like anyone I can imagine, but anything I can be derives from within me. I can be like a boy. I can play the part almost to perfection. But, it is just acting. When you cut to the heart of everything, I'm still a girl. When I get to the end of the day, and shrug off the personna I wear for everyone else's benefit, I revert to being me. When I have a nervous breakdown and everything I am crashes down around me, the only thing that survives to rebuild everything is me. Having been through all of these things many times over, I've learned that there is no other me. Since that is the only thing in my existence that I've been able to prove true, you will have to pardon me if I persist in searching for a way to show that truth to you. What you call magic, might not exist. What you call God, might not intervene. What you call impossible, might be ridiculously improbable. But I do not have the luxury of accepting these things.

These things, while helpful, are not really the solution to my problem. These things, if they could be used, would only put me in a position to face the real challenge that lies before me.



