\blue{pc} wrote: \i{I've mentioned Antonio Damasio in these threads before, about how he's revealed entire 'new' aspects of our functioning minds.}

I followed the link and read the review. Given how informative the review was, I believe it would be very interesting to read the actual book, but based on what is presented in the review, Damasio's approach and the corralaries found in AI research are precisely what I exect to find in an arguement for a material basis for the mind. It is certainly a strong argument against the seperation of the mind and body as it presents a strong model for a cooperative, interdependant and integral relationship for the evolution of the body and mind. Also, as \blue{pc} pointed out, it does not employ a self-referencing paradox or external agent to explain or account for the emergence of consciousness or the manifestation of intelligent coordination. 

It does not, however, provide an answer or explanation for the property or quality of awareness. While citing the existence and evolution of feed back mechanisms, it is difficult to employ the principle of communication in which the transmission of significance and meaning exclusive of conceptualization and understanding. Perhaps that is an aspect found in the actual text that I have not seen. As for the manner in which sensory impressions form the foundation for distributed processing, as convincing as the argument given is, again there is no account for the phenomenon of awareness and consciousness, what we exprience as the mind encompassing the process of emergent thought. Even when we are not conscious of what we know, we are aware that we know it. The competition described as distributed impressions cohere into an impulse is something we are aware of, even if we ignore it. More needs to be said in regards to the coherence of the mind, because, as I pointed out earlier, the mind is our interface with the universe. It is the lens in which awareness if focused into consciousness and understanding. So far, a convincing explanation for why the mind and the body are so intimately integrated suceeds only in establishing that the body is an important structural componant of the mind, which is to say that the body clearly exists for a reason. The same, of course, still has to be said about the mind. Pairing them this way simply relieves us of the painful paradox of the chicken and the egg.

\blue{pc} continues: \i{And yet, even as Damasio 'adds' more and deeper mental layers, I detect no sign of a central coordinator, much less a 'true self,' Cartesian or otherwise.}

Here's an interesting point. The 'true self' is inescapably and ultimately a reference to the soul. The "third" element... or the "fifth" element of ancient times. This is the ghost in the machine, the primordial magical paradigm. The meta principle. The 'true self' is in many ways an invention of the mind, the mind's way of asserting itself to be something more than the sum of its parts. It is a consequence of the ability to conceive of one's self and a prerequisite of the ability to conceive of another. It is here that the seperation of the individual from the environment actually occurs and here, philosophically, where the individual "acquires" a soul. Put more blatently, it is the emergence of self possession. It is simply ironic that this occurrence is an epiphany, a focusing of awareness into a primal point, a singularity of consciousness that inversely encompasses the complex of thoughts, feelings and experiences that define us. You can model it. It results in a four-dimensional construct, and it is experienced in a manner consistent with four-dimensional construction. In it, all points are equidistant from the focus, and space is created as required to accommodate whatever internal reflection is instigated.

A static image can convey a dynamic impression. 
An equation embodies a temporal progression. 

In response to your question, \blue{pc}, selfishness is one deritive of self\u{conscious}ness that is a highly probably result of introversion in response to the perception of aloneness and uniqueness. That makes it a common obstacle in the evolution of the self which opens the door to self-pity and self-importance. It can prevent an individual from fully recognizing the significance of others and developing the capacity for sympathy or empathy that emerges from recognizing similarity in others. This is where abstraction begins, and as comparisons are made with entities and objects of increasing dissimilarity a greater effort is required to acheive an abstract identification with and understanding of them. This is of course a pattern limited to the extension of voluntary concern, interest or respect. External phenomena can exact concern, interest or respect, such as fire, violent storms, malevolent entities (real or imagined) and adverse phenomena such as death. Individuals that are extremely introverted tend to only respect those things that "demand" respect.  