To Thine Own Self Be True

<b>Or, Know Thyself!</b>

:iconavmorgan:

I don't expect this to be a particularly deep or inspiring journal entry. In part, it was just time to put something else up on my page. It occurs to me, however, that there is an obvious transgender:self-absorbed thread emergent in my journal. Maybe it's time I addressed that. I look at this journal feature pretty much as <b>my</b> journal. The point of writing a journal, really, is to have a place where you never have to lie to yourself, or live up to the assumptions imposed upon you from the outside. It's a place to be naked, natural and unashamed. To that extent, I feel free to write anything that comes to mind, and I really don't care that this is ultimately open to public perusal. 

However, just because I am willing to allow you to peek into my thoughts, that does not necessarily mean that you will understand me. You might see the word transgender and form some impression of me based on that. Me, I am not entirely sure that the lable communicates any significant fact or truth about me. I am not the wrong gender, as the word implies. I do not subscribe to the belief that who I am is derived from what I am... or rather, I do not accept that the physical takes precedence over the spiritual or the mental. If you asked me what I am, I would be forced to tell you that I am a girl who happens to be a boy. A female that happens to be male. 

That ought to be confusing. Believe me, it confused the hell out of me for years! I cannot make it unconfusing for you. I have spent years trying to accomplish this task with the people I know and love most. My family and friends all persist in thinking of me as a defective boy. Well, the fact is, I am a boy. I've learned to accept that and live with it. Unfortunately, the truth is--has always been and will always be--that I am a girl. It's a paradox, and so am I, and I've learned to accept that and to live with it. If you read this and decide that I'm a guy and you will treat me as such, well... I face the same thing every day of my life, every time I encounter another human being. 

That is preferable to trying to make you understand what it is like to be me... to understand me enough to understand me. I say this because I have alienated too many people by trying to put my subjective experiences with this into words... because the words speak of a hell of bitter hoplessness and torment, and because suffering is personal and what I suffer cannot be compared to what another human being has suffered in his or her life. If some of those words leak out in my journal, please forgive me... but wounds must bleed a bit to clense themselves and allow for healing. You can empathize, or not, but let it pass. That's not what's important. 

What is important is what brought me here... what lies at the very heart of every effort I've ever made to express myself. Alexandrea Virginia Morgan does not legally, or materially, exist, but that is who I am. That is the person that revealed herself to me through my art over the course of my life. For a long time, she was the perfect muse. It was only as I was beginning to find myself as an artist that I realized that she was the product of my unconscious search for my own reflection. The face and form I longed to see to confirm my own existence. Can you imagine what that was like, when I realized that the girl of my dreams was in truth the girl I dreamed of being?

:crazy:

I've always loved the way that the Internet has allowed me to be <b>me</b>, where I am truly represented solely by the expression of myself. I came to DeviantART to represent myself, to present myself in my art... because in a very real sense, my art is me. I wish I was a better artist, that I could make myself more easily and more accurately seen, but I think I'll save my wishes for something truly miraculous and just work on becoming the best artist I can learn to be. But, as I value the truth so much, I cannot allow myself to obscure the ugly side of it. I am, by necessity, also someone else. Someone who, in a very real sense, is my creator, my author... a man who owns me and yet does not own himself. A man who, by the fact of his existence, obscures the truth of mine. A man who can only live because I do not want to die. 

Ah, this just scratches the surface of the paradox... but I do wonder. If I introduced you to <b>him</b> would he eclipse me in your eyes? If it meant that you had to accept the reality and truth of magic and miracles, would you welcome the possability of me manifesting myself, my true self, in the flesh? Interesting questions, and I am curious how people would answer them... but I don't expect you to. This is just, well... my own version of the Matrix. It started as the feeling that something was wrong, not so much with the world in general, but certainly with my world. But I can talk about that next time.

This Too Is The Art...

<b>Friends and Familiars</b> :dance:
A Place of Honor

A nod to :icontavaris: for becoming the newest person to start watching me. 

:iconSamartian::iconDestructionist::iconEvil-niltiaK::iconSummerset::iconLOPLbot::icononesixone::iconRush-Wing::iconenvironaut::iconchurchbells666:

:salute:
