It's a really sad thing when tragedy is followed by such mean spirited criticism and condemnation. This is not much different than saying that a woman who dresses to attract a potential mate is asking to be raped. No, this is not a direct comparison, but merely a class of commentary. Is it really so hard for people to remember that America is not a massive, sinbgle-minded corporate entity? Is it so hard to recognize that this was an attack on every soul on Earth? America is not this big beast, it is a nation formed from individuals from every race, culture and creed on Earth. Attacking the World Trade Center was the stupidest thing a terrorist could ever do. It's right there in the NAME! Here is this great edifice built to house companies serving people all over the world, and on September 11th, people from all over the world were killed indiscriminantly in a fashion devised to spill that blood on every soul in the world. 

Let's put a few things in perspective here. There can be no comparison between the 18+ people who spent years preparing for, planning and ultimately executing this atrocity, and the American Administration which fearfully and gravely chose a horrible weapon as the best hope of ending a long and bloody war. You can argue that using nukes can never be justified, and you can whine about how the use of such weapons was clearly intended to shock and terrify the enemy. You will only be partly correct, because you will be ignoring the rest of the story. I happened to live next door to one of the men who dropped one of those bombs, when I was a child. I remember him saying he never imagined the horror, the awesome power of that bomb, until he had seen it unleashed. No one could have. 

A nation that was heart sick of war faced a nation that was willing to fight to the last man, woman and child--because they felt they had nothing to lose. Japan had lost, they knew it, but their honor could not allow them to surrender. American leaders understood that. America could not defeat Japanese Honor, so Americans made the ultimate sacrafice to save lives... we confronted them with a horror that dwarfed the horror of war. We confronted them with the promise of genocide, a destruction that could not be fought, for the enemy would be striking from heaven itself. To make such a threat, we had to demonstrate the capability, not once, for such might be a fluke, but twice to prove we had the capability. In doing so, we were able to preserve the Japanese people's honor. No one could be expected to fight such a threat, no one could lose face... even so, the Emperor still had to commit seppuku, take the responsability for the war and it's failure, so that Japanese people could live and find a new future. 

Again and again, America has smeared mud and blood on its face to bring conflicts to an end. Again and again, America has been called on by other nations to take up the fight, to use her mighty arsenal and vast resources to protect people from threats to their freedom and liberty. In Korea and Viet Nam, America came at the call of established governments, and american citizens became soldiers to aid those people. Did we belong there? Hell no. Were we asked to come and fight, and did we fight? Hell yes! Why? Again and again, people have said that America fights only to protect it's interests, but does anyone out there remember what America's main interests are?

Freedom and the pursuit of happiness...

This is not only an American Dream. This is a dream shared by people all over the world. Granted, the systems we have are imperfect, and yes, there are still have's and have not's, but the government we have does not exist to balance the inequities of life. It exists to preserve the peace of a nation committed to freedom and opportunity. Over the past two hundred years, opportunity has lead to a wide range of human success, and that success has provoked envy and jealousy... and sadly, opportunity is circumstantial and subject to the whims and will of commen men and women. Thus, there have been dark days in American history when people found their freedom and opportunities denied by people who were jealous of their own success. This is as true today as it was in the days of the civil war, and just as then, people have been forced to fight for their rights... America is not perfect, but the ideal is there and it is still cherished by most Americans. 

America is really just an idea. An experiment that may tell us how we can all be citizens on one world someday, with no national boundaries--a world in which there is only one race, the Human Race, in all it's fabulous diversity and miraculous unity.

The issues of terrorism is simple, in this day and age it is possible for one man to slaughter thousands or millions indiscriminantly... and that is the danger and that is the threat and that is what we mourn discovering on that tragic, terrifying day, September 11, 2001

May God Have Mercy On Us All

Okay. first a nod and smile of thanks to kusunoke masashige for an excellent and articulate rebuttal. Way to go! 

Philosophia, I really appreciate where you are coming from. I am, however, not in complete agreement with the points you've made. A small forum like this is really not the best place to get into political history and American Foreign Policy which dates back to the Revolution. It's easy to look at all the leaves, branches and thorns in plain view and say "bad, America, no biscuit!" but it takes a bit more wit and wisdom to probe the roots of the problems facing us today. 

Why do so many foreign entities hate America and Americans? Well, that has to do with the perception of American Foreign Policy, which is predominantly geared toward protecting the rights and welfare of the American Citizens and those of favored nations, our Allies. America's defense and support of Isreal is not hard to understand. It dates back to WWII and the constitution of that nation from lands conquered by Nazi Germany. It is unfortunate that the land in question is considered holy to many different peoples, expecially since those peoples have more in common than otherwise, and they know it. Without American support, which by the way was the only support left to the Isrealies after Britian backed out, they would have long since been slaughtered to the last man, woman and child. America, however, is not responsible for the decisions and actions of the Israeli people. America did not give the Israelis a mandate to slaughter the Palistinians, that mandate came from their God, and it has not been revoked. America managed to convince the Israelis not to slaughter them to the last man, woman and child. 

America really does not want to be the world's police force, but, face it, mid-eastern nations don't play well together and some one has to keep them from killing each other wholesale. As for America's long struggle against Communism...

America was founded on certain ideals--strong ideals even Americans have found it hard at times to live up to--such as freedom, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, the idea that all humans are created equal--speaking more in terms of basic human rights, that all people are entitled to their own beliefs and that those beliefs should not dictate policy--the freedom of religion and seperation of church and state. Communism was never a real threat, because it is a way of living, not a true form of government. Socialism and Totalitarianism is what evolved from communist philosophy, and such societies deeply compromise the individual rights of the people for the welfare of the nation. America did not move into Afganistan and tell them what to do or how to live. America simply provided limited resources to a people who were struggling to resist a foreign, socialist regiem. America did not create Osama bin Laudin, the Soviet-Afgan war did. America did not encourage bin Laudin to take his war trained skills and turn to terrorism, that was his own decision, and when he did, America cut off the support it had been giving Afganistan. 

The sad thing is, Americans are being fed a lot of propaganda about what a terrible nation we are, how we steam roll over everyone else in the world... Let's be real, a lot of people don't like the decisions and actions which American Politicians have made, which have effected their lives. Well, the average American lives under the same yoke... We elect people we hope will represent out interests, and their agendas turn out to revolve around special interests, and decisions and actions are made which hurt and aggrivate the people of this nation no end. 

I try to give American Government the benefit of the doubt, because it's made up of people who are merely human. Many of them have been scammed, they are constantly subject to lobbying (that's "nagging" to those of you who aren't familiar with the phenominon)from every quarter... 

The real solution to terrorism, international politics, crime, poverty, etc all lies in the same place. Individual people like you and me. Ask yourself, are you willing to die for your beliefs, whatever they may be? Would you die to defend your home or your family from assault? 

The people who executed this atrocity have that much in common with the police and fire men who died as a result of their actions. They were willing to give their lives to succeed in their objective. The horror is that a great human strength has been perverted by hatred and intolerance and ignorance into the most lethal weapon of all. The only way to stop terrorism is for all people to look inside themselves and find out what beliefs they are willing to die for, the kind that allows you to take hundreds of innocent people to their deaths, to take the lives of thousands of additional innocente, or the kind that compell you to rush into the heart of disaster to save lives regardless of the danger or the cause? 

If you think that your beliefs demand the lives of others be sacraficed, you need to take a step back from the yoke. You don't belong behind the controls of this jet. Seek help, seek comfort from people who have not lost or abandoned their faith in humanity.
