The origins of the universe can be glimpsed in the process that unfolds in the story, which explores the point paradox of the absolute. In general terms, the universe is a complex construct of information—it is a universal idea. The "universe" as an object, does not actually exist. The universe is an idea shared by a vast number of souls that have evolved in context with the evolution of that idea. At the heart of the universal experience is the first aspect of the point paradox of the absolute. In the simplest terms, there are three absolute states, nothing, something, and everything. These are the three innate states of an absolute, which is at once, nothing, something and everything. A more evolved expression of point paradox can be found in the juxtaposition of two statements: In the awareness of nothing, awareness is everything. In the awareness of everything, awareness is nothing. The first statement provides a foundation for the absolute that is the soul. The second statement provides a foundation for the absolute that is the mind. A naked absolute, a pure mind or a pure soul, exists in a state of flux, a state of point paradox. In an effort to understand itself, the one thing exclusive of nothing and yet the one thing exclusive of everything, it strives to define itself. Inevitably, it is compelled to personify itself, because the best definition of a thing is the thing itself. 

Attention, Perspective, Intent


Is the mind passive? Our interaction with the world takes place in our minds. The world we know exists solely in our minds, created from the information provided by our physical senses. Our bodies are part of the information that makes up the world. Our minds influence the world through our bodies, a capability designed into them—created by and operating under the same rules of nature. 

Teleportation and Creation

The key to teleportation is the translation of matter through four or more dimensions of space. In general teleportation, a body is translated up at one location and down at another, and the assumption is that the matter is transferred as one unit. In truth, however, every particle is translated independently, leaving and arriving simultaneously. In creation, matter is also translated through higher dimensions of space, but during translation that matter is reorganized, translating down in a pattern imposed by the translator. In any translation, there is a displacement of matter at both locations… 

