But anyone who actually reads the Old Testament will find the old Jewish god a pretty bloodthirsty fellow.  He said, "I am a jealous God." and he wasn't kidding!

This point really brings home the fact that gods are reflections, not only of human beings but the character of humanity at the time they created their gods. I mean, if you look at the situation historically, if you look at the evolution of language and concepts, most spiritual concepts including that of gods are based upon the projection of human qualities and characteristics out into the universe. This is confirmed in the doctrine "as above, so below" where gods possess the creative and destructive powers in reality that human beings possess in their minds. Prior to the establishment of gods, the world saw the establishment of tyrants, men who simply took what they wanted, used who they liked and abused everything as they saw fit. 

Ancient gods are archetypes, characters based on real people used in stories inspired by real events, and like all stories passed on, they are exaggerated. Legend inspired myth, myth inspired theology, but the point is that the concept of gods was born through this process, gods were extracted from human character, and they were used as examples and warnings to civilization. When the gods were good, they were very, very good. When the gods were evil, they were very, very evil. In a time when people had no respect for what they did not fear, the gods were propped up to make people fear the consequences of their actions. It was the only way to get people to think about what they were doing. Unfortunately, the concept of a higher power was also seen as a means to appeal for divine intervention, and higher authority was used to endorse beliefs and actions that were exploitive and wrong. 

While terrible things that happened were attributed to the wrath of the gods, these punishments were of course random and proved the gods to be arbitrary and indifferent. They were worshiped out of fear and habit, but they were unworthy of worship. Eventually, people gave up trying to imagine how these perverse celestial beings could have cooperated in anything as awesome as the creation of the world, and given the unity of the diversity of life, concluded that it was all made by one entity and thus, that entity, the Creator, was alone worthy of worship. Enter God. Unfortunately, the old gods had been fickle because humanity is fickle and a singular, all powerful god was expected to assert his authority--in general, behave like a tyrant among gods.

Now, I have to point out that all of this has been a discussion of the evolution of the concept of God, and I emphasize that because humans needed to have a concept of God before they could even recognize the existence of God. The notion of a greater spirit or creator has always been a part of spiritual belief, and can be found in such concepts as the Dao, but the God of Abraham was a real innovation and people were not ready for Him. Moses had to beat his followers over the head with God to get them to take God seriously. However it is looked at, the one thing that can not be denied is that any divine revelation, even the revelation of God Himself, had to get through the filter of human ignorance and misconception. To this day people have a hard time grasping that God could be speaking to us constantly, but we either refuse to hear, listen or understand what He is saying. Why would that be different back in the time of Moses when it is so obviously true today? If it was true then, and today, why would it be different in the time of Muhammad? 