Intellectual Property 
Intellectual property is one of the most controversial ethical issues in
the digital world. Before digital technology existed, illegally making and distributing a large
number of copies of books, movies, or music was cost prohibitive, not to mention that the quality
of the copies was poorer than the original. Now that books, movies, and music are available
in digital format, anyone with a little know-how can make copies and distribute them over the
Internet—worldwide. The ethical debate surrounding such practice is heated. Such practice also
poses personal ethical dilemmas for us—whether to make or accept copies. You might argue
that Madonna is not going to suffer great financial harm if you download her latest incarnation
from a music-sharing site from which she won’t earn a penny. But, you might also argue, why
shouldn’t Madonna earn her royalty—she created the work in the first place. Intellectual property
infringement occurring over, or because of, IT has led to court battles (ever hear of Napster?)
and might lead to new legislation.

Freedom of Speech 
The Internet has created a number of free speech issues. First, consider
that free speech rights are not guaranteed around the world. Indeed, some countries use IT to
ensure that their citizens cannot access certain Web sites. Second, a number of Web sites contain
material that is objectionable to some people, such as racist comments and pornography. In 2002
the Supreme Court ruled on a case that would have forced public schools and libraries receiving
federal funds to use Internet filtering software to block certain Web sites on public computers
that children can access. Arguing before the Court, the Free Speech Coalition asserted that the
blocks would prohibit viewing of constitutionally protected material. Attorney General John
Ashcroft, representing the U.S. government and advocates of the filtering, argued that blocking
such sites was in the interest of protecting children in accordance with the Child Protection Act.
The Court sided with the Free Speech Coalition, finding that such filters do violate free speech
rights. [12, 13]

Finally, there are some marketing companies that use mass electronic mail (junk e-mail) to
reach potential customers. Most people who receive this mail do not want it. So a number of laws
have been proposed to curtail the practice. However, some people argue that these laws violate
free speech rights.

Social Concerns 
There are numerous social issues that have an ethical component in the
digital world. For example, poorer people and those living in rural communities may not be able
to access the Internet, which is a main requirement for living in the digital world. In addition,
societies are struggling with problems such as online gambling.
Throughout the book the ethical issues described above, and
others, will be discussed in more detail. As you read the Focus on
Ethical and Legal Issues boxes, consider your own ethical standards
and the actions you would take in each situation.

virtual presence protocol
The basic infrastructure of web cameras and communications can be used to help establish telepresence in the office for telecommutors. This would include and require AV infrastructure added to network infrastructure, the designation of public and private domains with negotiable access privileges. Individual would be able to "roam" the office by accessing public AV nodes, or request entrance to private nodes, in order to utilize streaming AV to maintain a virtual presence in the office. A complete system would include private remote nodes using the same protocol. An advanced concept would involve a complete virtual environmental interface, an echo & reflection of the norm. 
