Threshold access. Degrees of access are also referred to as threshold points. There are ten degrees of threshold access. These are the ten harmonic steps representing the ten existential aspects of the spirit functioning on the threshold. These are stages of development between no access to full conscious and natural interaction at that level, or attainment of that dimension of being. They are divided into three stages; sub/unconscious, conscious and ascendant. Threshold points add to the base access rating; attaining an ascendant plus one to spirit means that you have crossed your threshold and pushed it up one dimension, leaving your old threshold as your new natural state of existence. Degrees of aspect only limit what the entity may initiate; the gm may determine to allow an entity with no access to get access as a result of events around him as mentioned in manifesting power.

Unconscious	.0	no access
"		.1	subject to influence
"		.2	sensitive to changes
"		.3	sensitive to intent
"		.4	unconscious freedom

Conscious	.5	perceptive to it
"		.6	able to interpret it
"		.7	grasp the structure of it
"		.8	hold awareness of it, understand it
"		.9	conscious freedom

Access		+1	internalized, naturalized



Glas : 	seeing the spirit of intent



	nothing :: absolute
Domain : media		object : subject
	cusp : void (chaos)
Physical : physics	body: oblis	attention : interaction
Mental : psionics	cusp : mind (order)	perspective : reflection
Spiritual : magics	spirit : exis	will : expression
	cusp : soul (paradox)
	
	omnis

	the infinite expression

	Glas does not exist. Rather, it is a way to refer to the interpretation of perceptions of the spirit, the realm of exis. Perceiving glas is not entirely what it seems. In glas, the secrets of the material world are utterly transparent. However, the real secrets of the spirit are intricately hidden in the glas. What one sees in the glas is the link of the cusps of oblis. Hence, one sees focused attention. However, there is generally far more beneath the surface of the oblis cusp. The quality of glas is the same at any confrontation, but the reading of the subrosa glas requires effort and ability. In the glas, all things are represented, but only the surface is immediately clear. The rest trails off in fainter and fainter gossamer wisps of truth and possability. Imagine a pole in your hands. If you were to twirl it around in your hand, the ends would suddenly seem blurry and indistinct. In glas, there is a similar quality to what lies beneath the surface. By general definition, an individual, or a one, is the combined focus and envelope of an expression. In glas, it is apparent that all ones are inviolate and self possessed, and directly interact with all other ones in the patterns of the infinite expression. The reletive and scalar differences in magnitude and aptitude are the product of specific individual's asd.

	Access is the key to the map of all that can be accomplished by an entity. Every entity has a spiritual density, an innate design. This design is the entity's way of expressing itself. Each design has an aesthetic. It matters little what you call it—a dynamic, an edge, an angle, a paradigm—the more sophisticated and harmonic the design, the more coherent the individual. It is generally predefined by the type of entity and world involved, and it defines, enforces and governs the number of options open to an entity. It defines the limitations that make a human, human. A god, a god. Explaining the principles and handling of this is admittedly complicated, but once understood, it makes running the game much simpler.



	Perceiving in glas involves a hyper dimensional perspective, which can be atrophied in a real realm. The absolute limit of glas is paradox. It is the dividing line between the expressed and the unexpressed. Paradox is the omniversal exception. The inexhaustible answer. The effect of paradox on glas allows all realms to co-exist, but most entities do not recognize the threshold levels in their daily existence. There are common categories for access features which can be analyzed in the glas. 

	Expression. The point-paradox analysis of an individual, the omnis presence in the glas. This is the sign of self possession and in it can be seen the quality of being as self representation. Its first influence on the glas is to be its own expression. Its second influence on the glas is to become the expression of its own potential. All things have an expression, however, the entire expression of an individual can be only part of the expression of another. This analysis is the access to monadic theory and general pattern dynamics.

	Domain/Dominion. The perspective analysis of an individual. How the individual executes its own expression; the terms of its argument, or dynamic. The manner in which it rules itself. Self idealization through self realization. Domain includes everything that the entity is, however all but the focal presence is abstracted beyond the surface of the glas. An entity's public domain, the focal presence in the world, reveals itself in orders of precision, aesthetic, and integrity to analysis via the glas. The quality and clarity of the physical body is made transparent, revealing the basis of an individual's attractiveness, general health and endurance. This permits the true perception of the obvious state of being, exposing unhealthy beauty or seeming disfigurement; the entity with a refined domain will be attractive in some way even if he or she is also disfigured by conventional measures. The coarse but superficially beautiful one will appear to be somehow unappealing.

	Initiative. The subrosa analysis of the abstraction of possibilities to determine a course of action and commit to it; it is reflected perceptibly in the glas as strength of will, or psyche; self determination, and things relating to the power and distinction of an individual.

	Application. The subrosa analysis of the inclusion of intentions of a psionomechanical nature in the execution of changes in the world; commands originated in the mind over actualized paths, such as the body, abilities or powers. This analysis is used to determine an entity's capacity for deliberate actions.

	Remote/Response. The subrosa analysis of the inclusion of sympathetic or automatic execution of ingrained actions originating subconsciously or without deliberate intent yet with the force of intent. Action that is emoted or inspired rather than intended. This analysis is applicable to predicting casual actions equatable to reflexes, and forces of habit.

	Verge/Vector. The deep subrosa analysis of the inclusion of spatial discontinuity or supercontinuity in expression. Penetrating the glas along abstract paths accessed by the entity, as when in dreaming, irrespective of probable paths. This analysis is largely concerned with one or two practical uses. Probing subrosa requires the shifting of attention or maintaining separate attentions of various things occupying them, and the pursuit of secondary attention. The analysis can determine simpler things as well, such as the number of things the individual can keep in mind over long periods of time; the limit of separate skills and practices one can study in the same period or projects that one can be involved in without losing track of them while away from them. This is an entity's capacity for diversity.

	Trace/Tempo. The deep subrosa analysis of the inclusion of temporal and consequential discontinuity or supercontinuity. An entity who can trace can sidestep death or slide across the grain of realities at will. The analysis of tempo applies to the understanding of an entity's capacity for attention, as it is their attention that guides their being through the maze of possibilities along the track of reality. Through this, an entity can attain and maintain a separate reality. In analysis, it is possible to ascertain his capacity to grasp glimpses of the glas itself, as well as other applications of power, and note glitches in reality. People with high tempo are good at finding things that other people misplace. Tempo governs memory and history; the capacity to grasp of what really happened. Also, tempo represents an entity's ability to estimate future steps, or plan ahead.


		 

Psionics
	There are an inconceivable number of forms and expressions of power. One of the strangest and perhaps most disconcerting of them all is the innate power of the psyche. The power of will. Psychic power has eternally rode along the cutting edges of skeptical disbelief despite often being one of the most personal and most commonly experienced forms of the supernatural. 
	For the most part, psychic abilities tend to enable a mind to directly perceive its environment and to effect it, equally directly. In a world with a low dynamic, such abilities are weak and easily explained away. Only a uniquely strong psyche would be capable of manifesting psychic phenomena with any degree of veracity. While in our world and in our lives, most psychic phenomena are spontaneously irregular and disconcertingly vague, the potential to develop them to substantial levels is alluringly possible. There need only be a cause. Some kind of event or catalyst to jog the mind from its mundane course, forcing it to draw upon its subtle but powerful reserve and take direct action in life’s affairs. Or for the mind to seize the opportunity presented by the incidental disruption of the integrity of its assumed reality. Once the mind managed to demonstrate the possibility to itself, then it would be able to focus on and develop its potential to the point where the power acquired a reality in its own manifestation. Over the course of the popularization of psychic powers in art and fiction, names have been spawned to describe or define the powers of the mind. However, psionics is just psionics. The essence of all psionics is the ability to perceive directly with the mind, and the capacity to focus its will to such a degree that it effects its environment. Intuition and intent. The process of thought is innately dependent on the mind’s intuition of what it is trying to express or define. The mind uses the force of its intent to command the flesh in all of its actions. Most people have limited the extent of their psychic existence to these small arenas. 
	The development of psionic abilities can be accomplished by focusing on particular aspects of psychic application or even by practicing specific disciplines of these aspects in order to perform nearly limitless feats and miracles. The psionic aspects are esp, (extra sensory perception) the ability to perceive directly with the mind; pk, (psychokinesis) the ability to effect the environment directly with the mind; tp, (telepathy) the ability to communicate and interact directly with other minds; ap, (aurapathy) the ability to directly effect or control psionic power manifested by other minds; bk, (biokinesis) the ability to control, effect and manipulate living matter without inadvertently harming or killing it; and tpt, (teleport) the ability to displace matter, navigate higher spatial dimensions and achieve instantaneous or unhindered movement. There must be a significant and valid reason for any being to have psionic powers. If one is exposed to the possibility, or better yet, given proof, it is reasonable to surmise that the character had reason to develop similar abilities. If a character was never made to believe that such abilities did not exist, it is feasible that she may have developed them on her own if she ever had sufficient reason to have ever needed them enough to have become dependent on or accustomed to using them. Any character subjected to sufficient trauma such as with life threatening situations, or mind threatening situations, may have had cause to manifest some strange psychic phenomena sufficient to instill them with profound faith in the existence of such powers. Whatever the cause, even characters who have psionic abilities will be very unlikely to have more than a handful of disciplines which they managed to teach themselves through trial and error. It is conceivable that other psionics exist from whom a character might have learned, but that is even less likely. Succeeding in mastering psionic powers on one’s own is a feat of considerable merit, but having a teacher makes it too easy and worth far less in terms of experience, if not having a negative effect on it all together.
	
Catalyst	
Manifestation of psionic power can occur in times of great stress and trauma, as when reacting to extreme psychic shock. Such a shock can come from confronting the yawning abyss of the unknown, reacting to neurochemical trauma caused by the assimilation of toxic substances or extremely high (near lethal) dosages of drugs or poisons. Almost without exception, exposure to intense psionic energy fields or especially direct psychic attack will serve to catalyse psychic potential. Other causes of psionic manifestation include near death or imminant death experiences, losing one’s grip on sanity due to severe fright, and “stopping the world”. Stopping the world covers any bizarre activity which serves to disrupt the continuity of one’s reality thus exposing one directly to the unknown. That is, if for any reason, the mind ceases one or more of the following, its awareness, its constant interpretation, its perception of structure, or it loses its grip on structure itself.

Seizure	
Once exposed to a catalyst, the mind has an opportunity to seize power over its psychic potential. In general, this involves making a critical or natural critical success on a psyche test or similarly criting on the use of an actual psionic ability. A character making a critical save roll versus psychic attack with a critical success is also gains the opportunity to seize power.

Salvaging	
Often, the use of a psionic ability is not entirely successful. When an attempt is failed catastrophically though, the struggle that the character must go through to regain control and salvage their mind from the consequences of their fumble has certain rewards. A character saving against a direct psionic assault reacts to the effect of the attack as if it were a fumble on his part, in order to save. Take the severity of the attempted feat, modified by the character’s idea roll. The amount by which the idea roll is made is the percent by which the feat magnitude is reduced. Then the character or characters roll a contest of power to control the event and or neutralize it. Failure to control the effect means that they are totally subject to the effect of the power. Success allows the character the opportunity to seize power and raise their psi score.

Optimizing	
To succeed in seizing or salvaging psionic power means that the character has earned the right to expand their psionic potential. That is, the experience has caused them to grow. This growth occurs on two fronts. First, the event is recorded in the profile and rated according to the immensity or severity of the event and used to modify the character’s overall experience. Second, the event provides modifiers to raise the psi score a percent equal to the success of the idea roll from the save. This is the part you seized from the contest, and which allowed you to succeed in the attempt. This new psi rating will be drawn out of your experience, but the profile modifier for the event should make up for this is some part. Always remember to take note of such success and events so that you can apply them to your character record!

	Because all psionics make life easier, they are all drawn out of experience. The psi base is normally rated at 1.0, with each tenth of a point above that costing a hundred experience. Like all applied abilities, like skills, psionic aspect abilities and disciplines all cost experience, one for one. For the untrained use of psionic ability, only the base psi power is used, while characters trained in aspects can spend magnitude to raise their effective power equal to the rating of the aspect. Aspects alone effect power. Both aspects and disciplines control effect - some disciplines might substitute or augment power as a special effect, such as looping magnitude in a manner similar to base psi. In general, disciplines are what define the use of psi power and the special effects of their use. In their descriptions, it should define whether or how disciplines allow power to be used more efficiently, thus at a lower cost in magnitude. In general, a point of magnitude is equal to a point of psi, per second of execution. Psi, however, is constant and abilities performed within the limit of the psi base can be maintained almost indefinitely but for certain circumstances which would interfere. 
	In most cases, the power being used is divided by the value of the of the object or subject it is to be used on to determine the requirements for the effect to occur. Psionic effects are still governed by the standards of measure in the game, so translate directly as power in any game mechanic equation. Psi can be used to effect mass, temperature, velocity, motion, and in certain cases, dimension. See the appropriate equations for using psionics in any of these or similar manners. Psi may be accelerated by the expenditure of magnitude in order to cause acceleration of the psionic effect. To psionically move an object, a 98 kg person for example, say at a psi power of 10, (10 divided by 98 being about 0.102040...) Would cause him to move about a tenth of a meter in a second. If this were accelerated at the rate of the power, which is the most you can push it, unless you have an aspect rating higher than that (but no higher than the rating), it would accelerate at a rate of one decimeter a second: one decimeter in the first, two in the next, three in the third, for a total of six decimeters in three seconds for a cost of thirty magnitude. Training is very valuable in that aspect ratings are cheaper than psi ratings, though magnitude costs can be expensive. However, magnitude is only spent too accelerate and decelerate, once you have reached the speed you desire, you can maintain it for free. Magnitude tends to recover fairly quickly on a successful psyche test a minute, your base magnitude is restored to you. If you fail, you do not recover that minute. If you fumble, you will not be able to recover again for one om of time, or, for an hour the first fumble, a day for the second fumble, and so on, until you succeed. 
	in general, you only pay the differnece between your psi and the applied experience of your psionic aspect when you push for more power. To psionically move an object, that 98 kg person for example, say at a psi power of 100, with a pk of 1000 (1000 divided by 98 being about 10.2040...) Would cause him to move about ten meters in a second at a cost of 900 magnitude a second. To accellerate would cost an additional 1000 a second raising it to 1900 a second. To acheive 800 m/s would take 80 seconds and 152,000 magnitude. Your average psionic is only going to be able to keep this up for a few minutes before burining out. Certain disciplines are more cost effecient for many applications, and so are very valuable. A list of disciplines detailing their advantages and applications can be found in the appendices. New disciplines should address the following:

Name	what it is called - relative to other dicsiplines			aspect	
								prerequisites
Description	what it does and how it works
Mechanics	any effects on game mechanics

Orders of magnitude (om)

Om relational
Distinctive spheres of reletive familiarity from the perspective of the individual.

Om	familiarity	as if...
0	own soul	...of one’s own essence
1	own self	...of one’s own psyche or mind
2	intimate other	...lovers, loved ones, intimite friends / enemies
3	acquaintance 	...of casual / superficial interaction
4	icon 	...seen, recognizable, but not interacted with
5	cypher 	...never interacted, presumed to exist
6	foreign 	...unfamiliar in dress, habit...
7	alien 	...unfamiliar in appearance, nature, design...
8	abstract 	...lacking coherent, recognizable features
9	unknown 	...unregarded, unexperienced
10	unknowable 	...indefinable, unrelatable 

Om situational
Distinctive spheres of reletive accessibility from the perspective of the individual.

Om	time	range (spherical:linear)
0	instant	none: touch
1	moment	touch: full reach
2	hour	full reach: near horizon
3	day	near horizon: far horizon
4	week 	far horizon: planetary diameter
5	month 	diameter as radius: to moon
6	year 	moon orbital radius: to sun
7	decade 	planetery orbital radius: to alpha centuari 
8	century	 sol/alpha centuari radial: edge, local group
9	millennium 	local group sphere: galactic diameter
10	epoch (age) 	galactic sphere: intergalactic
11	era	intergalactic sphere: universal core
12	aeon	universal sphere: ...


Esp
Sense 	.	
Amplify 	.	
Truesight 	.	
Intuition 	.	
Sense danger	.	
Combat precog 	.	
Precog 	.	
Psychometry 	.	
Clairvoyance 	.	
Clairaudience 	.	
Trace 	.	
		

Pk 	.	
Telekinesis tk 	.	
Pyrokinesis prk 	.	
Cryokinesis ck 	.	
Spectralkinesis sk 	.	
Electrokinesis ek 	.	
Levetation 	.	
Pk shield 	.	

Pk / esp 	.	
Pk field 	.	
Pk blast 	.	
Spectral illusion 	.	
Pk blades 	.	
Morphokinesis 	.	
Silence 	.	
Sk field 	.	
Ek field 	.	
Fission 	.	
Fusion 	.	

Pk / bk 	.	
Flight 	.	

Pk / esp / tpt 	.	
Protokinesis 	.	
 		

Bk 	.	
Neurostatic 	.	
Regeneration 	.	
Resiliance 	.	
Pain 	.	
Healing 	.	
Pheromones 	.	
Drain	.	
Invulnerability	.	
Life support 	.	
Stasis 	.	
Bk blades 	.	
		
Bk / esp 	.	
Tactile illusion 	.	
Control metabolism	.	
Evolution 	.	
Replication 	.	
Metamorphosis 	.	

Bk / tp	.	
Probe 	.	
Deathblock 	.	

Bk / tpt 	.	
Unmember 	.	
Mist metamorph 	.
Disruption 	.	


Tp 	.	
Astral projection 	.	
Empathy 	.	
Empathic projection 	.	
Compulsion 	.	
Sleep 	.	
Sense tag	.	
Erase tag	.	
Telesense 	.	
Telescan 	.	
Telereceive 	.	
Telesend 	.	
Telestatic 	.	
Telecontrol 	.	
Mental shield 	.	
Mental blow 	.	
Mental stab 	.	
Mind-trap 	.	
Mind-wipe 	.	
Possession 	.	
Presence 	.	

Tp / esp 	.	
Mental illusion 	.	
Mind-program 	.	
Inconspicuousness 	.	

Tp / ap 	.	
Mind-swipe 	.	
Rapport 	.	
Meta-concert 	.	

Tp / ap / tpt	.	
Realm 	.	
		

Ap 	.	
Psi static 	.	
Psi sense 	.	
Psi drain 	.	
Psi burn 	.	
Psi kill 	.	
Psi reflect 	.	
Psi resistance 	.	
Psi amplify 	.
Psi loop	.	
Psi absorb 	.	
Psi over-ride 	.	
		

Tpt 	.	
Autopt 	.	
Exopt 	.	
Disruption apt 	.	
Disruption ept 	.	
Spatial stasis 	.	
Mist 	.	
Noncorporeal 	.	
Stasis 	.	
Combat apt 	.	
Ion apt 	.	
Abort apt 	.	
Dimensional apt 	.	
Dimensional ept 	.	
Rift blade	.	

Tpt / esp 	.	
Tpt trace 	.	
Foldspace 	.	
Null-shield 	.	
Null-field 	.	
	


Inspired glas


Arcanum ars	the arcane arts. There are many ways to manifest intent, as is reflected in the existence of many different colleges of thought and practice. For some, these are just philosophies. To others, though, they are a way of life. None of these is particularly evil or amoral. All forms of power have their own place in the absolute scheme of things. It is rarely surprising to see power abused, and there are many ways such power as these arts represent may be abused. Like life, it is up to the individual to be or not be responsible with it.

Sorcery		basic stand up magic, sorcery is concerned with getting the job done. There is no ceremony, no philosophy, or natural purpose to it. It is will and determination, bound with power. By its nature, it abuses natural law, so it rarely gains the stigma of other powers when abused. It is a tool, like the sword it is often paired with. Anyone can use it, though it serves best he who has skill. 

Conjury		a subtler art, conjury is used to manipulate spirits and souls. Demonology is not a distinct art, but rather a branch of conjury. It is both reverent and irreverent. A dangerous art, it can both bind and destroy in ways that sorcery cannot. A conjuration draws the spirit and our soul of that it seeks in its bidding, to the conjuror. Dragging the body or form with it. Witchcraft is a diluted form of conjuration, often more dangerous to the user. It works in the same way, though.
		a pure demonologist is a specialized conjuror. He has limited aptitude in other forms of conjuration, if any at all. Demonologists often have worse reputations than mere conjurors, as demons are poorly understood and often feared. In fact, there are many different kinds of demons. Most little related. The word merely means servitor. Technically, any creature summoned from another plane and bound to service is a demon. Spiritual demons are distinct in that they exist as a concept until given awareness and form. A mortal, too, exists as a spirit concept before conception. The only difference between demons and mortals is that mortals are born of flesh. A demon's form is manifested by the realm on manifestation, thus is seen to be magical, rather than mortal.

Oneiromancy	existence, it has been said, is a dream. Oneiromancy is the art of dreaming. In dreaming, the soul and spirit slip the bonds of reality and access the infinite and abstract. Oneiromancy breaks down the bonds of collusion and allows the exploration of possibilities. A difficult art, it destroys the crutch of reality for the oneiromancer, leaving his existence dependent on his strength of will. However, his control of reality is as precise and complete as that of his dreaming. Dreams and reality are one.

Enigmancy	there is nothing as formidable as the unknown. Enigmancy is the art of mysteries. Its practice is paradox. It is not taught or studied. The enigmancer is privilege to the inner workings of the unknown. Mysteries. When he has learned something it remains inexpressible, though it is instantly knowable to him. It is often hard for an enigmancer to say whether he is an enigmancer. Though, when it comes down to it, he knows. To him speak the mysteries of life, the future, the past, death, the invisible and the confounding. You can hide nothing from the enigmancer, though rarely acts on what he knows, even when he is asked. Though he sees, he is no mere diviner. In his actions, and his art, he is inscrutable and enigmatic. This art so greatly exceeds subtle that one comes to believe that he is the magic, not just its user.
		enigmancy is often thought of as an art of the gods. However this could be true, it is not exclusively so. Differences in magnitude of power aside, enigmancy is a path that begins with intuition and is available to whomever is able of willing to listen to it. Indeed there are some who can not avoid its call. Ironically, few of those who seek it can attain it. Enigma by nature consumes attention.

Psychemancy	the art of mind and soul. An old magic, and one often split, psychemancy rules the delicate bridge between the absolute, immortal awareness, and the discriminating lens of thought and perception that binds a being to the realm. Augmenting one's natural psychic gifts, and blending them with the sublimity of magic, psychemancy frees one from the cloying drag of matter. Concerned with thought and being, perspective and possibilities, it focuses on personal transformation. It is inversely equal to carnemancy, ruling being and intent.

Carnemancy	the art flesh, form and the senses. Carnemancers are the best healers, restorers, shifters, transformers, and conjurors of food. The body, be it plant or animal, whole or in part, is this art's domain. The vessel of life. Also, this college of thought rules form and inclusion. Creation and manifestation, however they may occur, are clearer and more precise with a carnemancer. Carnemancy instills the purest understanding of structure, and even delves into the real nature of dimensions.

Necromancy	the art of unlife, anti-life, and undeath. An oft feared and abused art, it uses the antithesis of life as a means of existence. It worships death as a path rather than an end. It is an art obsessed by dark consequences. There is a line created between the simple art of animating unliving matter, and animating unliving flesh. The act of undoing implied in re-animating the body, or spirit, or even mind of the dead unleashes a backlash energy--anti-life, or necromantic energy. Denial, not as a reaction, but as an action. A denial of natural order. Few arts dare this inversion of existence--though many a river has places where the current runs upstream. The greater undead have and take little interest in the affairs of the living, so the art thrives even when living practitioners are abolished.

Diviney		the art of spirit, intent, and divinity. While psychemancy rules intent from a mortal perspective, this art is of and about intent. Its practice is divine--more truly the art of gods, though also that of demons, angels, avatars, and through faith, mortals. It is about design. The expression from which existence takes form. In a sense, all magic is divine, in that all spells have a spirit, as does that which lives or has lived. It is that from which life--like existence--forms. It is the spirit that guides and shapes the soul. While diviney does not deal with the soul itself, through the spirit, it can affect the spirit that rules the soul. To give one's soul to another being, is to abandon one's spirit, one's purpose. Thus, one's awareness merges with whomever has acquired one's soul. Even still, a soul can possess more than one spirit. Such is divinity. Most diviners merely read what lies in the skein of intent, and would do little to effect it directly. One who does is divine.

Embodied glas

Vampires 	mythical entities such as vampires are given certain advantages due to their proto-spiritual nature. They gain access to subconscious or conscious control of their thresholds of (i), (a),(r), sometimes to (v) and (t), and gain an order to (d). They also are allowed to have power abilities appropriate to their demeanor. They are allowed a limit of their base experience divided by their generation in points to invest in powers; paying for them out of experience along with the other abilities, or from obligation if they desire. Other forms of mythical entities have distinct altered profiles. A template for such creatures is created similarly to define the structural advantages or peculiarities indigenous to them. As this is but a note, i will not go into this at this time. If there are any questions about the requirements before they become available, then bring them up to me.

On the inbetween [oblis in glas]
No longer constrained by the flesh and its limitations, the vampire soul may chose oblivion, rebirth or most rarely to walk the inbetween. To walk the inbetween, is to exist as a dream of one's self. The vampire, no longer powered by blood, exists solely by force of will. True to the nature of vampires, it may sustain itself by draining the will of others. This is accomplished by forcing the victim to expend willpower in behalf of, or because of, it. The expenditure of willpower on the part of the vampire will allow it to manifest itself in flesh, use its disciplines, enhance its attributes, or, in proportion to the expenditure, alter their environment or others:

Sacrifice	effects limited to	degree of effect	example
1	a person		minor		heal 1 wound level
2	a few people	minor		alter lighting/mood
	a person		minor-moderate	heal 1 aggravated wound lvl
3	a room		minor		drop temperature
					impose silence
	a person		moderate		unmaim minor appendage
4	a street		minor		summon fog
	a group		minor		eerie sounds
	a person		moderate		unmaim major appendage
5	a building		minor		eerie presence
	a group		minor		moving shadows
	a group		moderate		spectral opponent
	a person		major		unmaim
6	a room		moderate-major	cloak in shadows
7	a room		major		spectral scene
8	a room		major		reconfigure layout
9	a building		major		obfuscate ••
10	a room		major		night during day
	a group		major		spectral wounding assailants
	a person		extreme		destroy and restore

An inbetween will discorporate upon expending all willpower or upon taking incapacitating damage in that form. However, as long as the inbetween retains its base will, it will continue to exist. A permanent point of will is equal to ten willpower, but once spent it will not come back unless repurchased with experience. Will can be bought up to a maximum equal to the generation had as a vampire, but will start only as high as ten. The limit of willpower spent in a turn is also the same as bloodpoints it could spend, as per generation. Being a dream, as well as a vampire, exposure to daylight will cause discorporation of the form. The inbetween is limited to the night in all of its actions, with a rare exception of speaking from deep shadows during the day... If there is someone there to listen, that is.				

Onaenance	this is the discipline of existing on the inbetween. Possession of this discipline allows a kindred to remain coherent beyond the final death, and begin mastering the abilities of an inbetween. All incarnations will discorporate if incapacitated, or upon the exhaustion of all willpower. This incapacitation can be delayed if the form possesses blood in its bloodpool, which can be spent as extra wound levels. However, upon exhausting those bloodpoints, the form will again discorporate:

•	dream of self
••	dream of selves (1 form / blood & will point - memorized)
•••	worldbound, allows drinking of blood
••••	earthbound, allows temporary mortality (1 day / blood & will point)
•••••	well of night, move abroad at day
••••••	sight of dreams
•••••••	dreamwalking
••••••••	dreamstalking
•••••••••	dreamcasting
••••••••••	dreamrealm

Saertius	this is the discipline of abandoning corporealness far beyond the allowances of protean. Possession of this discipline allows protean to be learned unassisted without penalty, because of the similarities. Its use requires the expenditure of a bloodpoint to initiate. Items and clothing will not shift or discorporate (phase) with the vampire:

•	as mist (undispersed), translucent form (half damage from attacks)
••	noncorporeal, one pace only (unless obstructed by material overlap)
•••	shift, one pace any direction
••••	noncorporeal, rounds equal to will
	shift, meters equal to will
•••••	twice length, or distance
••••••	phase other, one round (unless obstructed by material overlap)
•••••••	earthbind other
••••••••	
•••••••••	
••••••••••	

Quaexea	this discipline requires the refined blood of the kindred over the thick, heady blood of a mortal. In its lesser stages, it merely refines the kindred's blood to a suitable clarity. The consequences and rewards of this are thus: kindred blood counts double when drunk, but mortal blood counts as only half of what the vampire drank. Quaexic blood is as clear and pure as water, but for a faint luminescence. Drinking more than a single bloodpoint of this blood will induce psychedelic reactions at random, until otherwise spent. However, one point of this blood is worth triple the amount drunk, so long as it has had a full day to catalyze. Never the less, these bloodpoints count the same as any other for spending to raise attributes, activate disciplines. Finally, only this refined blood can be spent to activate the special powers of this discipline.

•	purified blood 			permanent
••	heal aggravated wound			1 bp, 1 wp
•••	restore crippled/maimed appendage/organ		1 bp, 1 wp, 1 hour
••••	psychokinesis (int as str, wits as dex; at range of sight) 	1 bp, 1 wp
•••••	levitation				persistent, 1 bp
••••••	heart tap (causes one round of incapacitation)	1 bp, 1 wp
•••••••	heat (1 body or object, 1° per second w/concentration)	1 bp, 1 wp/attempt
••••••••	spirit hammer (will as str...)		1 bp, 1 wp
•••••••••	true flight				persistent, 1 bp
••••••••••	cup of life (ressurect mortal)		5 bp, 5 wp

Severance	upon being severed from the bloodline, a kindred will go into severance shock. Without the support of a bloodline, the blood will panic into an unusual frenzy, desperately altering its kindred host in order to meta-stabilize. It will attempt to establish itself a new bloodline with its host as its first generation. Each day it will drain bloodpoints equal to half of that kindred's bloodpool, one point of will power, and one humanity to sustain this frenzied metamorphosis. If the kindred can entirely fill his or her bloodpool that evening, and keep it so until it goes to ground, her generation will raise by one at dawn (one point less though, and nothing is gained from that night's torment and loss.) The next day, will repeat the cycle, the loss of half of the bloodpool, one point of willpower and one humanity. This will continue until the vampire reaches first generation, at which time she will inherit all of the potential of that status, but unfortunately none of the benefits of age and experienced that are possessed by the established creatures of that generation. If the player shows her torment and anguish at the loss of humanity, she may use her experience to restore her humanity, as seems appropriate. Severance will only occur if the bloodline is broken entirely. If the blood is drunk, then the line will thread through the drinker, merely raising the drinker's generation by one if the bloodline is higher, with no other benefits to any. Those who have lost their sire will remain trapped at their present generation unless remade. Also, those who have committed diablerie in any manner besides working their way up in their own bloodline in order of sires and sires' sires, they will never be able to sever from the bloodline as they have tied theirs into knots. On the other hand, if the sire of many childer is destroyed, than all of his get will go through the severance to establish their own bloodlines. Some would say that this is the initial cause of the creation of all the existing bloodlines, the destruction of the first sire... Or his most prolific child. 
	it is of course possible that a kindred who is severed might have sired childer of its own before its severance, in which case, they are dragged along with their sire to a lower generation appropriate to their descendence from it. Their torment will end once they reach their new generation, but they can only proceed at the same pace as their sire. They cannot gain generations faster than their sire, but if their sire advances faster than they, they will also suffer a wounding equal to the amount their sire has gained on them, which they cannot heal until they catch up. They will also pay the same price per day that the sire pays for each generation, relative to their current generation of course. The only exceptions to this cascade effect, are those who have committed diablerie. They will remain as they are, unless remade to a bloodline. However, the mere thought of an entire bloodline going through acceleration frenzy all at the same time, all over the world, is too frightening to entertain. Hence, it is not hard to conceive of why those who might know of these secrets would go to extreme lengths too preserve the ignorance of their existence. 

Generation	max rating	bloodpool	points/turn

First	20	200	50
Second	15	100	35
Third	10	75	20	
Fourth	9	50	10
Fifth	8	40	8	
Sixth	7	30	6
Seventh	6	20	5
Eighth	5	15	3
Ninth	5	14	2
Tenth	5	13	1
Eleventh	5	12	1
Twelfth 	5	11	1
Thirteenth +	5	10	1


Metamorphs	a term for any entity which has managed to attain the access or ability to adopt another form or body implying that they must have a (d) of at least four, and each applicable or potential form must be noted among the abilities with the new height, mass, and level of mastery. Attributes do not change, rather one's effectiveness with them, and the applicable mass factors do. A hundredth of the rating is a multiplier for attributes and defaults. A rating of one hundred for that form means that the entity is just as effective, attribute wise as in its native form. An alternate form which is also an alternate incarnation, distinct mind, distinct form, is designed separately and the entities are linked in a group soul. Which see.

A requirement for play, the possibilities innate to each dimension of each aspect of being needs to be detailed. Not everyone is going to just understand them, and even i would benefit from having it laid out to save on explanations.

Body fold 	is a transcendence of form which allows the body to contain infinite depth. The flesh becomes benignly penetrable. Anything that penetrates through the regular surface is folded into an inner sheathe. The tissue of this sheathe is like internal skin; as int he mouth or vagina. This cushion protects all vital structures in the body by expanding to accommodate the intrusion and enveloping it. The initial wound need be no more than a scratch, would bleed no more than that, and the power of the fold would take over at once. Being a four dimensional interface, a body of equal diameter to the host could be enveloped through the slightest cut. Natural openings in the skin might even serve as well, should an intrusion exceed the capacity of the cavity. This phenomena would require (d : 4), (i : 5). Expulsion of the inclusion might require (a :4). 

Body shift 	is a transcendence of form which allows the body to embody many different design dynamics; human, animal, and functional, like regeneration. The body only manifests one of the embodied forms at a time, or a variation along a scale of transition. The rest remains only as spirit, or code on a four dimensional level. As the form is altered wholesale, it allows for incredible regenerative and cohesive abilities. It requires (d : 4), (i : 5), (a : 4*), and (r : 3*). The two marked with an asterisk may only require threshold access. This is an ability possessed natively by shape shifters. It is also the basis for profound regenerative abilities.

Space shift 	is essentially standard teleportation. It would require (i : 5), (a : 4) and (v : 1).

World shift 	is an elaboration on dreaming; the ability to shift ones attention to another separate reality, bringing one's self along. This requires (i : 5), (a : 4), (v : 1) and (t : 1).

Child cycle 	is an amendment to the body's metabolism and growth that causes the aging process to reverse at full maturity. One would unage at the same rate that one aged until one reached the child stature of about a five year old. At that point, the body would transmute into the opposite gender and once again begin to age. This cycle is endless, save for accidental death. Each cycle presents opportunities for reproduction and learning, and the gender swings consistently back and forth. This process requires only subconscious access to the thresholds of being.

Unmember 	is the same in requirement as shifting and folding. It is the ability to introduce four dimensional junctures in the flesh. It would allow for the entire body to be taken apart; dismantled as it were. The organism would continue to function through four dimensional channels. It is useful for cosmetic, diagnostic, and medical procedures. Bloodless and scarless surgery. The entire body may either be reassembled or else folded back wholesale. It should be obvious that anyone would want to master this one. Bodyfold and unmember make good compliments if trained to accommodate each other. There are limits to what a body can safely fold, at which point it would better be conditioned to let an inclusion pass. The effects of such a use would be disturbing to witness, but the body would be preserved. 

An example, (e) of eight dimensions, allows for the full exploration of many foci; many forms. An (i) of five dimensions would allow one to cross the threshold between one's self and one's other incarnations. A (d) of four dimensions allows for an amazing number of possibilities. However, it is best to examine the norm. Reality for humanity is defined as having five or eight dimensions (e), four dimensions of (i) or mind, as it might conventionally be defined, three (a) and (d)(action and design, or carnal expression), two (r) reaction, and negligible (v) and (t). People rarely demonstrate a degree of access to (v) and (t), and these two are not easily translatable to common terms. The average person has the same limits, though more likely with the exception of an (e) of five dimensions. The difference of (e) defines the individual as being devoted or legion souls. I am not certain of the accuracy of the designation of the complexity of (e) at this time, so i will grant alterations to this part in the future. In one's probable condition, one's mind is capable of engaging one world at a time consciously. One world being the sum of one's self, the realm where one resides and interacts, and the possibilities available to one in those terms. One's body is complex to three dimensions, and one is limited to using it within those limits to express one's self in the world. To complete the transition of a threshold in (i), and become five dimensional in (i), one would be able to mentally engage a four dimensional world. And consciously bridge to another mind. This is the basic goal for attaining a power like telepathy.
	that is not all that could be attained, however. The result of this success would be, an (i) of five, allowing for one to jointly exist, in more than one place, in three of (a) and (d), and two of (r). Ignoring (t) and (v) at present, this would not be sufficient for one to so exist in the same world. To accomplish this one of these manifestations would have to gain at least subconscious access to the threshold of (a) or (d), allowing for a four dimensional movement across to the other's world. It would be preferable to have conscious access to both for it to be under any control. The attainment of (i) at five would allow that development to occur, fortunately; though it would leave one in a situation where one was sharing awareness of two or more irreconcilable worlds. The consequences would be: each would experience constant input from the other that would interfere with and distract the other in their own activities. Though there is a question as to how one could train one's self appropriately without the access itself.
	however, that is only the beginning. The other thresholds of (a), (r), (d) and eventually (t) and (v), must follow. Indeed, (v) might be a prerequisite to any of this. Definitely. The maintenance of separate attentions and the navigation of off-sequence trajectories demands it. Both of these qualities need to be nurtured. The power they offer really does remain only in the reach of one's subconscious. I beg that you refer to the definitions of these aspects, if you care to follow the full reasoning of this. In some regards, they go hand in hand with the achievements of other aspects.

ARENA OPTIONAL DESIGN NOTES


[ashe] daemonin
	a racial package, daemonin had a +1 to all dexterity/agility based abilities, a +2 to all intelligence based abilities, a base intuition, a +1 to all magical abilities, and a +3 status and resources.  They also had combat reflexes and high pain thresholds, making them resistant to physical and mental shock, with increased initiative.  They were attractive as a rule, and raised to embrace a code of honor which saddled them with an imperial duty and a personal dependant.  Circumstances also provided them with a racial enemy, while nature itself made them a focus for strange happenings.

vampires
	mythical entities such as vampires are given certain advantages due to their proto-spiritual nature.  They gain access to subconscious or conscious control of their thresholds of (i), (a),(r), sometimes to (v) and (t), and gain an order to (d).  They also are allowed to have power abilities appropriate to their demeanor.  They are allowed a limit of their base experience divided by their generation in points to invest in powers; paying for them out of experience along with the other abilities, or from obligation if they desire.  Other forms of mythical entities have distinct altered profiles.  A template for such creatures is created similarly to define the structural advantages or peculiarities indigenous to them.  As this is but a note, I will not go into this at this time.  If there are any questions about the requirements before they become available, then bring them up to me.

metamorphs
	or any entity which has managed to attain the access or ability to adopt another form or body must have a (d) of at least four, and each applicable or potential form must be noted among the abilities with the new height, mass, and level of mastery.  Attributes do not change, rather one's effectiveness with them, and the applicable mass factors do.  A hundredth of the rating is a multiplier for attributes and defaults.  A rating of one hundred for that form means that the character is just as effective, attribute wise as in its native form.  An alternate form which is also an alternate incarnation, distinct mind, distinct form, is designed separately and the characters are linked in a group soul.  Which see.

an example
	(e) of eight dimensions, allows for the full exploration of many foci; many forms.  An (i) of five dimensions would allow one to cross the threshold between one's self and one's other incarnations. A (d) of four dimensions allows for an amazing number of possibilities.  However, it is best to examine the norm.  Reality for humanity is defined as having five or eight dimensions (e), four dimensions of (i) or mind, as it might conventionally be defined, three (a) and (d)(action and design, or carnal expression), two (r) reaction, and negligible (v) and (t).  People rarely demonstrate a degree of access to (v) and (t), and these two are not easily translatable to common terms.  The average person has the same limits, though more likely with the exception of an (e) of five dimensions.  The difference of (e) defines the individual as being devoted or legion souls.  I am not certain of the accuracy of the designation of the complexity of (e) at this time, so I will grant alterations to this part in the future.  In one's probable condition, one's mind is capable of engaging one world at a time consciously.  One world being the sum of one's self, the realm where one resides and interacts, and the possibilities available to one in those terms.  One's body is complex to three dimensions, and one is limited to using it within those limits to express one's self in the world.  To complete the transition of a threshold in (i), and become five dimensional in (i), one would be able to mentally engage a four dimensional world.  And consciously bridge to another mind.  This is the basic goal for attaining a power like telepathy.
	That is not all that could be attained, however.  The result of this success would be, an (i) of five, allowing for one to jointly exist, in more than one place, in three of (a) and (d), and two of (r).  Ignoring (t) and (v) at present, this would not be sufficient for one to so exist in the same world.  To accomplish this one of these manifestations would have to gain at least subconscious access to the threshold of (a) or (d), allowing for a four dimensional movement across to the other's world.  It would be preferable to have conscious access to both for it to be under any control.  The attainment of (i) at five would allow that development to occur, fortunately; though it would leave one in a situation where one was sharing awareness of two or more irreconcilable worlds.  The consequences would be:  Each would experience constant input from the other that would interfere with and distract the other in their own activities.  Though there is a question as to how one could train one's self appropriately without the access itself.
	However, that is only the beginning.  The other thresholds of (a), (r), (d) and eventually (t) and (v), must follow.  Indeed, (v) might be a prerequisite to any of this.  Definitely.  The maintenance of separate attentions and the navigation of off-sequence trajectories demands it.  Both of these qualities need to be nurtured.  The power they offer really does remain only in the reach of one's subconscious.  I beg that you refer to the definitions of these aspects, if you care to follow the full reasoning of this.  In some regards, they go hand in hand with the achievements of other aspects.
	
body fold
	is a transcendence of form which allows the body to contain infinite depth.  The flesh becomes benignly penetrable.  Anything that penetrates through the regular surface is folded into an inner sheathe.  The tissue of this sheathe is like internal skin; as int he mouth or vagina.  This cushion protects all vital structures in the body by expanding to accommodate the intrusion and enveloping it.  The initial wound need be no more than a scratch, would bleed no more than that, and the power of the fold would take over at once.  Being a four dimensional interface, a body of equal diameter to the host could be enveloped through the slightest cut.  Natural openings in the skin might even serve as well, should an intrusion exceed the capacity of the cavity.  This phenomena would require (d : 4), (i : 5).  Expulsion of the inclusion might require (a :4).  

body shift
	is a transcendence of form which allows the body to embody many different design dynamics; human, animal, and functional, like regeneration.  The body only manifests one of the embodied forms at a time, or a variation along a scale of transition.  The rest remains only as spirit, or code on a four dimensional level.  As the form is altered wholesale, it allows for incredible regenerative and cohesive abilities.  It requires (d : 4), (i : 5), (a : 4*), and (r : 3*).  The two marked with an asterisk may only require threshold access.  This is an ability possessed natively by shape shifters.  It is also the basis for profound regenerative abilities.

space shift
	is standard teleportation.  It would require (i : 5), (a : 4) and (v : 1).

world shift
	is an elaboration on dreaming; the ability to shift ones attention to another separate reality, bringing one's self along.  This requires (i : 5), (a : 4), (v : 1) and (t : 1).

child cycle
	is an amendment to the body's metabolism and growth that causes the aging process to reverse at full maturity.  One would unage at the same rate that one aged until one reached the child stature of about a five year old. At that point, the body would transmute into the opposite gender and once again begin to age.  This cycle is endless, save for accidental death. Each cycle presents opportunities for reproduction and learning, and the gender swings consistently back and forth.  This process requires only subconscious access to the thresholds of being.  

unmember
	is the same in requirement as shifting and folding.  It is the ability to introduce four dimensional junctures in the flesh.  It would allow for the entire body to be taken apart; dismantled as it were.  The organism would continue to function through four dimensional channels.  It is useful for cosmetic, diagnostic, and medical procedures.  Bloodless and scarless surgery.  The entire body may either be reassembled or else folded back wholesale.  It should be obvious that anyone would want to master this one.  BODYFOLD and UNMEMBER make good compliments if trained to accommodate each other.  There are limits to what a body can safely fold, at which point it would better be conditioned to let an inclusion pass.  The effects of such a use would be disturbing to witness, but the body would be preserved.  

arcanum ars
	the arcane arts.  There are many ways to manifest intent, as is reflected in the existence of many different colleges of thought and practice.  For some, these are just philosophies.  To others, though, they are a way of life.  None of these is particularly evil or amoral.  All forms of power have their own place in the Absolute scheme of things.  It is rarely surprising to see power abused, and there are many ways such power as these arts represent may be abused.  Like life, it is up to the individual to be or not be responsible with it.

sorcery
	basic stand up magic, sorcery is concerned with getting the job done.  There is no ceremony, no philosophy, or natural purpose to it.  It is will and determination, bound with power.  By its nature, it abuses natural law, so it rarely gains the stigma of other powers when abused.  It is a tool, like the sword it is often paired with.  Anyone can use it, though it serves best he who has skill.  

conjury
	a subtler art, conjury is used to manipulate spirits and souls.  Demonology is not a distinct art, but rather a branch of conjury.  It is both reverent and irreverent.  A dangerous art, it can both bind and destroy in ways that sorcery cannot.  A conjuration draws the spirit and our soul of that it seeks in its bidding, to the conjuror.  Dragging the body or form with it.  Witchcraft is a diluted form of conjuration, often more dangerous to the user.  It works in the same way, though.
	A pure demonologist is a specialized conjuror.  He has limited aptitude in other forms of conjuration, if any at all.  Demonologists often have worse reputations than mere conjurors, as demons are poorly understood and often feared.  In fact, there are many different kinds of demons.  Most little related.  The word merely means servitor.  Technically, any creature summoned from another plane and bound to service is a demon.  Spiritual demons are distinct in that they exist as a concept until given awareness and form.  A mortal, too, exists as a spirit concept before conception.  The only difference between demons and mortals is that mortals are born of flesh.  A demon's form is manifested by the realm on manifestation, thus is seen to be magical, rather than mortal.

oneiromancy
	existence, it has been said, is a dream.  Oneiromancy is the art of dreaming.  In dreaming, the soul and spirit slip the bonds of reality and access the Infinite and Abstract.  Oneiromancy breaks down the bonds of collusion and allows the exploration of possibilities.  A difficult art, it destroys the crutch of reality for the oneiromancer, leaving his existence dependent on his strength of will.  However, his control of reality is as precise and complete as that of his dreaming.  Dreams and reality are one.

enigmancy
	there is nothing as formidable as the Unknown.  Enigmancy is the art of mysteries.  Its practice is paradox.  It is not taught or studied.  The enigmancer is privilege to the inner workings of the unknown.  Mysteries.  When he has learned something it remains inexpressible, though it is instantly knowable to him.  It is often hard for an enigmancer to say whether he is an enigmancer.  Though, when it comes down to it, he knows.  To him speak the mysteries of life, the future, the past, death, the invisible and the confounding.  You can hide nothing from the enigmancer, though rarely acts on what he knows, even when he is asked.  Though he sees, he is no mere diviner.  In his actions, and his art, he is inscrutable and enigmatic.  This art so greatly exceeds subtle that one comes to believe that he is the magic, not just its user.
	Enigmancy is often thought of as an art of the gods.  However this could be true, it is not exclusively so.  Differences in magnitude of power aside, enigmancy is a path that begins with intuition and is available to whomever is able of willing to listen to it.  Indeed there are some who can not avoid its call.  Ironically, few of those who seek it can attain it.  Enigma by nature consumes attention.

psychemancy
	the art of mind and soul.  An old magic, and one often split, psychemancy rules the delicate bridge between the absolute, immortal awareness, and the discriminating lens of thought and perception that binds a being to the Realm.  Augmenting one's natural psychic gifts, and blending them with the sublimity of magic, psychemancy frees one from the cloying drag of matter.  Concerned with thought and being, perspective and possibilities, it focuses on personal transformation.  It is inversely equal to carnemancy, ruling being and intent.

carnemancy
	the art flesh, form and the senses.  Carnemancers are the best healers, restorers, shifters, transformers, and conjurors of food.  The body, be it plant or animal, whole or in part, is this art's domain.  The vessel of life.  Also, this college of thought rules form and inclusion.  Creation and manifestation, however they may occur, are clearer and more precise with a carnemancer.  Carnemancy instills the purest understanding of structure, and even delves into the real nature of dimensions.

necromancy
	the art of unlife, anti-life, and undeath.  An oft feared and abused art, it uses the antithesis of life as a means of existence.  It worships death as a path rather than an end.  It is an art obsessed by dark consequences.  There is a line created between the simple art of animating unliving matter, and animating unliving flesh.  The act of undoing implied in re-animating the body, or spirit, or even mind of the dead unleashes a backlash energy--anti-life, or necromantic energy.  Denial, not as a reaction, but as an action.  A denial of natural order.  Few arts dare this inversion of existence--though many a river has places where the current runs upstream.  The greater undead have and take little interest in the affairs of the living, so the art thrives even when living practitioners are abolished.

diviney
	the art of spirit, intent, and divinity.  While psychemancy rules intent from a mortal perspective, this art is of and about intent.  Its practice is divine--more truly the art of gods, though also that of demons, angels, avatars, and through faith, mortals.  It is about design.  The expression from which existence takes form.  In a sense, all magic is divine, in that all spells have a spirit, as does that which lives or has lived.  It is that from which life--like existence--forms.  It is the spirit that guides and shapes the soul.  While diviney does not deal with the soul itself, through the spirit, it can affect the spirit that rules the soul.  To give one's soul to another being, is to abandon one's spirit, one's purpose.  Thus, one's awareness merges with whomever has acquired one's soul.  Even still, a soul can possess more than one spirit.  Such is divinity.  Most diviners merely read what lies in the skein of intent, and would do little to effect it directly.  One who does is divine.

orders of mastery, abilities
	Since there will always be a character conceived with some ability that can not be found sufficiently represented or defined according to the application of its varying orders of mastery, it is simpler to establish a precedent for their application.  In brief, these are the achievements of each order of mastery relatively speaking.  That is, a suggestion as to the extent of knowledge gleaned from one's experience.  It takes a judgement call to equate these guidelines to the apprehension of abilities too onerous to detail extensively.
	Not every ability you possess needs to be listed.  Many common abilities default off of the ATTRIBUTE RATINGS, such as swimming, walking, running, your primary language, thinking, learning, memory, or other such reasonable activities.  Things to include are things that are not commonly expected, and things that are of specific importance to your character.  If an ability is not listed that is reasonable to see in the character, which becomes important in the course of the game can be appended to your list and taken out of your general experience.  The Maestro will have to approve this, but that is what general experience is for.  It represents all the things you know, or have learned that do not apply to the needs you have in your life.  If your needs change, then your mind will draw up the information that can be related to the need and a skill resolves.  An ability can be dropped for similar reasons, and the value restored to EXPERIENCE.

novice
	a novice has only barely been exposed to this ability.  In fact, he may not even have any training or guidance; making it up as he goes, or playing on instinct.  He rarely knows what he is doing and succeeds almost entirely on dumb luck.  He may have a handful of tricks, but he quickly runs out of ideas.  Most people are novices at everything and do not even know it.  A novice is not prepared for what may happen; often wasting time recovering his wits and scrabbling for a grasp on the situation.

apprentice
	the apprentice has had enough experience to have figured out what it is he is learning.  While he has more of a clue, and perhaps benefits from the guidance of another, he doesn't really know how to get the exact results that he wants.  He learns new tricks each day, and knows just enough to put a complete novice in his place.  When his luck is with him, the apprentice can once in a while pull a trick or move that catches a master off guard, but he should know better than to push that kind of luck.  An apprentice is only barely prepared for things and will quickly lose ground under pressure.

master
	the master knows his stuff and does it well enough to get by.  To have reached this stage, he has tested himself against both odds and those better than himself.  To trade on an ability, or stake one's life on it, it had damn sure be mastered, or one could end up in all sorts of trouble.  The master knows hundreds of tricks, and is wary to learn more.  Many of the complications which plague the actions of novices and apprentices have long been over come for a master.  In some arts, a master learns to perform his art so well that he no longer must try so hard to aim, or need not regard some situations as critical.  When masters go head to head, it can be rather drawn out, as they exhaust countless moves and counters looking for a gap.

adept
	the adept knows his stuff so well that it is hard to tell just what he really knows.  Adepts are rarely trained; usually they evolve slowly out of hardened masters.  An adept has the finesse to elicit the exact effect a situation calls for, and occasionally make seasoned masters look like tender novices.  The adept's mastery borders on mystical.  Adepts rarely cross swords, as they play their hands swift and devastatingly.

wizard/magus
	a wizard has achieved so much that it can honestly be said he has forgotten more than most people have learned.  What he has not forgotten is by itself almost impossible to challenge.  In his way, the wizard's skill or talent is supernatural.  Their art has gained them insights into nature the common man can only dream of; while the wizard seeks to make use of them in his practice.  A wizard can at times be so many steps ahead that he has forgotten what is going on at present.  But he can compensate so fast, whole schemes can evolve on the spot.

glas : seeing the spirit of intent

GLAS	Glas does not exist.  Rather, it is a way to refer to the interpretation of perceptions of the spirit, the realm of exis.  Perceiving glas is not entirely what it seems.  In glas, the secrets of the material world are utterly transparent.  However, the real secrets of the spirit are intricately hidden in the glas.  What one sees in the glas is the link of the cusps of oblis.  Hence, one sees focused attention.  However, there is generally far more beneath the surface of the oblis cusp.  The quality of glas is the same at any confrontation, but the reading of the subrosa glas requires effort and ability.  In the glas, all things are represented, but only the surface is immediately clear.  The rest trails off in fainter and fainter gossamer wisps of truth and possability.  Imagine a pole in your hands.  If you were to twirl it around in your hand, the ends would suddenly seem blurry and indistinct.  In glas, there is a similar quality to what lies beneath the surface.  By general definition, an individual, or a one, is the combined focus and envelope of an expression.  In glas, it is apparent that all ones are inviolate and self possessed, and directly interact with all other ones in the patterns of the infinite expression.  The reletive and scalar differences in magnitude and aptitude are the product of specific individual's ASD.

inspired glas : 
embodied glas : 

THE INTERFACE
	nothing :: absolute
domain : media	object : subject
	cusp : void (chaos)
physical : material	body: oblis	attention : interaction
mental : psychic	cusp : mind (order)	perspective : reflection
spiritual : glasial	spirit : exis	will : expression
	cusp : soul (paradox)
	
	omnis

	the infinite expression

ACCESS TO THE INTERFACE
In the spirit, all things are defined and given representation.  Spiritual representation can be so vast and complex, however, that the expression defies all logic and sense of order.  There is a part of awareness that deals with the specific, or internal logic of expression.  It is referred to as access because by its nature it defines how much of the infinite expression a being can interface with.  The map to all that can be accomplished by the entity.  Access is associated with the dimensional complexity of the mind.  The world we inhabit is actually an image generated by the mind representing the information absorbed from the interface.  An image designed to provide the most compatible format for interaction.  It forces discrimination between media and dimension isolating perspectives that reconcile details in the most efficient manner.  It takes raw information and determines how it can be mosst effectively perceived and how complex the format for representing it should be.  As we are all the sum of ourselves, our world and our potential, access defines, enforces and governs reality.  These are the limitations that make a human, human.  A god, a god.  The principles of access is complicated, but simpler to use in abstraction.  While access and interface are synonomous in function, interface is often a specific reference to a common alignment of access.  A collusion or an agreement in association.

THRESHOLD OF THE INTERFACE
For any given interface, there is a threshold approaching a higher level of interface.  Access to this threshold varies from mind to mind.  There are distinctions in threshold awareness recognized as degrees of access.  There are ten degrees of access to the threshold.  These are the ten harmonic steps representing the ten existential aspects of functioning on the threshold of the spirit.  These are stages of development between normal awareness to fully conscious threshold awareness; and natural interaction at that level.  Attainment of a higher interface invokes a higher order of access.  Threshold awareness is divided into three stages; unconscious, subconscious and conscious.  Threshold awareness is a constant modification in the way an individual aligns with the interface.  leaving your old threshold as your new natural state of existence.  Degrees of aspect only limit what the entity may initiate; the GM may determine to allow an entity with no access to get access as a result of events around him as mentioned in Manifesting Power.

UNCONSCIOUS	.0	NO ACCESS
	"		.1	SUBJECT TO INFLUENCE
	"		.2	SENSITIVE TO CHANGES
	"		.3	SENSITIVE TO INTENT
	"		.4	UNCONSCIOUS FREEDOM

SUBCONSCIOUS	.5	PERCEPTIVE TO IT
	"		.6	ABLE TO INTERPRET IT
	"		.7	GRASP THE STRUCTURE OF IT
	"		.8	HOLD AWARENESS OF IT, UNDERSTAND IT
	"		.9	CONSCIOUS FREEDOM

CONSCIOUS		+1	INTERNALIZED, NATURALIZED

DOMINION 		Perceived in glas, beings have an aesthetic spiritual density.  An innate design that is the entity's way of expressing itself.  Each design has a dynamic, an edge, an angle, a paradigm.  This design is referred to as a dominion.  Within a dominion are domains where abstractions are defined.  In the spirit, all things are self defined, but the living, the divine are self defining, dynamic; in a dominion the expression is changing itself under its own will.  The more sophisticated and harmonic the spiritual being, the more coherent the individual.  A dominion encompasses an individual to all depths below the surface of the glas.  It is generally virtual, and perceiving it in glas involves a complex grasp of dimensional perspectives.  The absolute limit of this, like all spiritual expression, is paradox, the dividing line between the expressed and the unexpressed.  Paradox is the omniversal exception.  The inexhaustable answer.  Paradox allows all realms, domains and dominions to co-exist, but most entities do not recognize the threshold levels in their daily existence.

POINT			The point-paradox analysis of an individual, the omnis presence in the glas.  This is the sign of self possession and in it can be seen the quality of being as self representation.  Its first influence on the glas is to be its own expression.  Its second influence on the glas is to become the expression of its own potential.  All things have an expression, however, the entire expression of an individual can be only part of the expression of another.  This analysis is the access to monadic theory and general pattern dynamics.

PARADIGM		The perspective analysis of an individual.  How the individual executes its own expression; the terms of its arguement, or dymanic.  The manner in which it rules itself.  Self idealization through self realization.  Domain includes everything that the entity is, however all but the focal presence is abstracted beyond the surface of the glas.  An entity's public domain, the focal presence in the world, reveals itself in orders of precision, aesthetic, and integrity to analysis via the glas.  The quality and clarity of the physical body is made transparent, revealing the basis of an individual's attractiveness, general health and endurance.  This permits the true perception of the obvious state of being, exposing unhealthy beauty or seeming disfigurement; the entity with with a refined domain will be attractive in some way even if he or she is also disfigured by conventional measures.  The coarse but superficially beautiful one will appear to be somehow unappealing.

INITIATIVE		The subrosa analysis of the abstraction of possibilities to determine a course of action and commit to it; it is reflected perceptibly in the glas as strength of will, or psyche; self determination, and things relating to the power and distinction of an individual.

APPLICATION		The subrosa analysis of the inclusion of intentions of a psionomechanical nature in the execution of changes in the world; commands originated in the mind over actualized paths, such as the body, abilities or powers.  This analysis is used to determine an entity's capacity for deliberate actions.

REMOTE/RESPONSE	The subrosa analysis of the inclusion of sympathetic or automatic execution of ingrained actions originating subconsciously or without deliberate intent yet with the force of intent.  Action that is emoted or inspired rather than intended.  This analysis is applicable to predicting casual actions equatable to reflexes, and forces of habit.

VERGE/VECTOR	The deep subrosa analysis of the inclusion of spatial discontinuity or supercontinuity in expression.  Penetrating the glas along abstract paths accessed by the entity, as when in dreaming, irrespective of probable paths.  This analysis is largely concerned with one or two practical uses.  Probing subrosa requires the shifting of attention or maintaining separate attentions of various things occupying them, and the pursuit of secondary attention.  The analysis can determine simpler things as well, such as the number of things the individual can keep in mind over long periods of time; the limit of separate skills and practices one can study in the same period or projects that one can be involved in without losing track of them while away from them.  This is an entity's capacity for diversity.

TRACE AND TEMPO	The deep subsurface analysis of the inclusion of temporal and consequential discontinuity or supercontinuity.  An entity who can trace can sidestep death or slide across the grain of realities at will.  The analysis of Tempo applies to the understanding of an entity's capacity for attention, as it is their attention that guides their being through the maze of possibilities along the track of the interface.  Through this, an entity can attain and maintain a separate reality.  In analysis, it is possible to ascertain his capacity to grasp glimpses of the glas itself, as well as other applications of power, and note glitches in reality.  People with high Tempo are good at finding things that other people misplace.  Tempo governs memory and history; the capacity to grasp of what really happened.  Also, tempo represents an entity's ability to estimate future steps, or plan ahead.

Circles of Power—Cliques, Courts Arcanum

The evolution of power came through the Courts, the circles of peers. When the study and practice of arcane arts had developed into multiple paths, the followers of those paths grouped together like cliques. Cliques in modern times are courts. A circle of peers devoted to, and patrons of a school of thought. The original cliques are aspected, following the divisions of power into the domains of Clerics, Magics, and Psionics. The modern cliques were splintered off from Alyn Magic, incorporating elements of different disciplines of power, emphasizing a  particular philosophy or religion. 

Arcanum Ars

The arcane arts. There are many ways to manifest intent, as is reflected in the existence of many different colleges of thought and practice. For some, these are just philosophies. To others, though, they are a way of life. None of these is particularly evil or amoral. All forms of power have their own place in the Absolute scheme of things. It is rarely surprising to see power abused, and there are many ways such power as these arts represent may be abused. Like life, it is up to the individual to be or not be responsible with it.

Divine Magics (Av’vA)
	Enigmancy
	Deomancy
	Diviny
		Angelic
		Demonic
Rift Magics (Avon)
	Omniomancy
		Athenic
Alyn Magics
	Psychomancy
	Sorcery
	Conjury
	Demonology
Lyn Magics
	Oneiromancy
	Mnemeomancy
	Necromancy

Psionics
	Psychic

Mnemonics

Cliques & Vocations
	The Circles of Power
	Ranks
	Vocational Requisites 
Cleric
Animistic (Spirit)
Elemental (Spirit)
Astral (Spirit)
Angelic (Pantheon)
Demonic (Monotheon)
Shamanic (Anitheon)
Diabolic (Antitheon)
Magic
	Sorcery
	Conjury
	Allusion	
	Illusion
	Collusion
Craft
Alchemy
Artifice
Psionic
Omniomancy
Onieromancy
Mnemeomancy
Necromancy

Divinity / Divine Magics

Enigmancy

There is nothing as formidable as the Unknown. Enigmancy is the art of mysteries. Its practice is paradox. It is not taught or studied. The enigmancer is privilege to the inner workings of the unknown. Mysteries. When he has learned something it remains inexpressible, though it is instantly knowable to him. It is often hard for an enigmancer to say whether he is an enigmancer. Though, when it comes down to it, he knows. To him speak the mysteries of life, the future, the past, death, the invisible and the confounding. You can hide nothing from the enigmancer, though he rarely acts on what he knows, even when he is asked. Though he sees, he is no mere diviner. In his actions, and his art, he is inscrutable and enigmatic. This art so greatly exceeds subtle that one comes to believe that he is the magic, not just its user.

Enigmancy is often thought of as an art of the gods. While this could be true, it is not exclusively so. Differences in magnitude of power aside, enigmancy is a path that begins with intuition and is available to whomever is able of willing to listen to it. Indeed there are some who can not avoid its call. Ironically, few of those who seek it can attain it. Enigma by nature consumes attention.

Deomancy 

The art of intent, spirit, and divinity. While psychomancy rules intent from a mortal perspective, this art is of and about intent. Its practice is divine—more truly the art of gods, though also that of demons, angels, avatars, and through faith, mortals. It is about design. The expression from which existence takes form. In a sense, all magic is divine, in that all spells have a spirit, as does that which lives or has lived. It is that from which life—like existence—forms. It is the spirit that guides and shapes the soul. To give one's soul to another being, is to subordinate one's spirit, one's purpose. Thus, one's power merges with whomever has acquired one's soul. Even still, a soul can possess more than one spirit. Such is divinity. 

Diviny

Angelic and Demonic arts. A branch of deomancy, diviny is used to appeal to spirits and souls. These arts serve intent, as much as those conceived to them, in spirit, are bound to. While diviny does not deal with the soul itself, through the spirit, it can affect the spirit that rules the soul. Mortals know little of these arts. Even mortals promised to a god, know little about the Angelic and Demonic arts. Most diviners merely read what lies in the skein of intent, and would do little to effect it directly. One who does is divine.

Alyn Magics

Psychomancy

The art of intent. The progenitor of modern magic, derived from the study and mastery of mind and soul. An old magic, and one which overlaps the boundaries of most magics, psychomancy rules the delicate bridge between the absolute, immortal awareness, and the discriminating lens of thought and perception that binds a being to the Realm. Augmenting one's natural psychic gifts, and blending them with the sublimity of magic, psychomancy frees one from the cloying drag of matter. Concerned with thought and being, perspective and possibilities, it focuses on personal transformation. It is inversely equal to Mnemeomancy, ruling understanding and intent.

Sorcery

The pure school of Psychomancy is rarely studied, but the most common form of magic is its direct descendant. Sorcery is the practical, distilled essence of Psychomancy. A basic stand up magic, sorcery is concerned with getting the job done. There is no ceremony, no philosophy, or natural purpose to it. It is will and determination, bound with power. By its nature, it abuses natural law, but it rarely gains the stigma of other powers when abused. It is a tool, like the sword it is often paired with. Anyone can use it, though it serves best he who has skill. 

Conjury

A more subtle art, conjury is used to manipulate spirits and souls. It is both reverent and irreverent. Conjury is practiced both by those promised to a god, and free, independent mages. A dangerous art, it can both bind and destroy in ways that sorcery cannot. A conjuration draws the spirit and our soul of that it seeks in its bidding, to the conjuror. Dragging the body or form with it. Witchcraft is a diluted form of conjuration, often more dangerous to the user. It works in the same way, though.

Demonology

Demonology is not truly a distinct art, but rather a branch of conjury. A pure demonologist is a specialized conjuror. He has limited aptitude in other forms of conjuration, if any at all. Demonologists often have worse reputations than mere conjurors, as demons are poorly understood and often feared. In fact, there are many different kinds of demons. Most little related. The word merely means servitor. Technically, any creature summoned from another plane and bound to service is a demon. Spiritual demons are distinct in that they exist as a concept until given awareness and form. A mortal, too, exists as a spirit concept before conception. The only difference between demons and mortals is that mortals are born of flesh. A demon's form is manifested by the realm on manifestation, thus is seen to be magical, rather than mortal.

Lyn Magics

Oneiromancy

The art of attention, also known as the art of life. Existence, it has been said, is a dream. Oneiromancy is the art of dreaming. In dreaming, the soul and spirit slip the bonds of reality and access the Infinite and Abstract. Oneiromancy breaks down the bonds of collusion and allows the exploration of possibilities. A difficult art, it destroys the crutch of reality for the oneiromancer, leaving his existence dependent on his strength of will. However, his control of reality is as precise and complete as that of his dreaming. Dreams and reality are one.

Mnemeomancy

The art of attention, in the sphere of flesh, form and the senses. Mnemeomancers are the best healers, restorers, shifters, transformers, and conjurers of food. The body, be it plant or animal, whole or in part, is this art's domain. The vessel of life. Also, this college of thought rules form and inclusion. Creation and manifestation, however they may occur, are clearer and more precise with a Mnemeomancer. Mnemeomancy instills the purest understanding of structure, and like Oneiromancy, even delves into the real nature of dimensions.

Necromancy

The art of unlife, anti-life, and undeath. An oft feared and abused art, it uses the antithesis of life as a means of existence. It worships death as a path rather than an end. It is an art obsessed by dark consequences. There is a line created between the simple art of animating unliving matter, and animating unliving flesh. The act of undoing implied in re-animating the body, or spirit, or even mind of the dead unleashes a backlash energy—anti-life, or necromantic energy. Denial, not as a reaction, but as an action. A denial of natural order. Few arts dare this inversion of existence—though many a river has places where the current runs upstream. The greater undead have and take little interest in the affairs of the living, so the art thrives even when living practitioners are abolished.

Psionics

The essence of all psionics is the ability to perceive directly with the mind, and the capacity to focus its will to such a degree that it effects its environment. Intuition and intent. The process of thought is innately dependent on intuition, the mind’s innate grasp on what it is trying to express or define. Psionic ability is present in all sentient organisms, but requires training or profound intuition to develop past the default of latency. The same potential, untrained, is the basis of psychic abilities, which require no discipline. The mind is designed to use the force of its intent to command the flesh in all of its actions. The shift towards command of the spirit is a natural one, and unless discouraged on a wide scale is the first step in developing higher access. Psychic power has eternally rode along the cutting edges of skeptical disbelief despite often being one of the most personal and most commonly experienced forms of the supernatural. 

For the most part, psychic abilities tend to enable a mind to begin directly perceiving its environment and start effecting it directly. In a world with a low dynamic, such abilities are weak and easily explained away. Most people have limited the extent of their psychic existence to the smaller arenas of mundane existence. 

Mnemonics

Mnemonics is an off-shoot of psionics, derived from a vast wealth of psionic experience and applied to the imposition and reinforcement of predefined psychic pathways in others. This is the branch of psionics  concerned with metaprogramming, and is practiced in conjunction with psychomancy (and its derivatives) or mnemeomancy to create artifact keys, enchanted objects that bestow abilities on a user. Mnemonics can create objects as whole and distinct as people, and can use people as objects with frightening impunity. 



The second temptation and fall of nineveh. Probing the events of the fall—and sacrificial redemption—of av nineveh. A divine aspect of aes, her origins are couched in metaphoric terms but the metaphors have exceptional resonance with the literal terms. In her eternity of agelessness, she was a host in infinite expression. Her aspect was an ideal phoenix. A being of unlimited expression and endurance. In essence, she was the focus of an invested domain. She existed as the envelope of her domain. Lured into the embrace of her draconic mortal charges [where, as before] she attained an objective self awareness. Unfortunately, she was immediately faced with the deovuring hunger her wards had for her based on what she was and what they could attain by uniting with her essence. Namely, god hood. In the ensuing war of these young dragons—each seeking to possess their divine and beloved phoenix—her dreadful umbra was awakened and enraged. The wave of destruction she unwittingly unleashed swallowed this world. Before she could lament this act, she realized that she had sprung a trap on herself.

What is the trap? One does not need to look much farther than (mystery) for an answer. (mystery) set all of this up, knowing what it is like to be nineveh. Knowing what could happen if nineveh consciously recognized the patent revolt that her host was making against her. (mystery) was once merely the avatar of phoenix, like av now. Her own fall made her the angel of death, child of darkness, and destruction. Av's fall would destroy her, leaving all to the power of (mystery)—the dark phoenix. The trap itself? Originally, (mystery) was anije, an angel. As an angel she was bound to herself as the god, by a soul held hostage. The avatar was contained in its host too well. That other soul formed an umbreachable buffer between avatar and god. Av was designed like (mystery)—with an unbearable resonance—but was not subject to the same limitations. The soul of the god was directly invested in that avatar. By engaging her in direct combat, (mystery) contrived to slay her limited host, drawing out the unrestrained umbra of the god and possessing it. Av had been made vulnerable to such a maneuver by a dragon, against the dark twin of herself she stood nearly hopeless. In a sinister way, she was behind this plot herself; even in her deliberate innocence, she was the angel of death. Understanding herself in that moment, she knows that she cannot destroy the destroyer in herself. She cannot defeat her self. So she creates... A paradox.

Paradox continues to evolve, as the far reaching influence of its mass draws life not even conceived to points in time far around the limit of its own period. The envelope of the infinite expression gives unthinkable dimension to the dreaming as one. Hidden in the frightful weave of it all is the option to risk the awakening of the absolute self. Goad and temptation to all who have tasted the point paradox. The wake of the point paradox descends on earth, [ttvv earth (caoi yn)] a world framed in the minds of humans [in the very process of conceiving the inconceivable] who stand right on the focal cusp of the infinite expression. From which many deviations originate that define the trace, tempo, verge and vector of the envelope; the arena. 

Nineveh is lured into the flesh, drawn down into the mortal realm of aegis. In aegis there are two races of servitors representing the creative and destructive nature of phoenix. The first of the dragons, the angel of destruction and the lord of demon/dragon kind was the model for the embodiment of av nineveh; the demon of creation and slave of the angelic/phoenix host served as the model of spirit. Embracing exile to escape it, she regurgitated the devoured world the world, scarred by the rebirth became lost to the empire and strange to its ageless ways. The minds and great works of art of that world which had passed through the phoenix were altered and misted. Changed in nature, it became a world of fantastic nature. From the secret heart of the phoenix, dreams and horrors were born in the flesh.

Some of the dream-spawned things—somehow aware of their unbelonging—soon vanished to hidden shadows within the great dragon doors, but the memory of them became the foundation of the new mythology.

A dragon door is a lock the likes of which only the mind can be a key. Dragon doors were fugues; gateways between spaces and times. A corridor to realms beyond thought as well as to those frighteningly within. Only a mind as keen as a dragon's had the fineness to easily pass and turn the great lock. Hence, in the time of dragonkind's golden empire, these strange dimensional whorls were veritible doors spanning a vast empire spanning galaxies. Such a thing, in the time and the lands of human rule, is but a nagging beacon of madness.

Myth of aegis

One could say that aegis was created out of xanadau. Somehow, in the dreaming alone, there began a dreaming as one [the mass of (mystery) emerging from the point paradox]. Gradually, timelessly, the dreaming became its own waking, pulling along the strays and lost dreamers of many different periods. Eventually even myth gave way to reason. If it had not taken so much to live in the heavens, the powers bred in dreaming might have withered. Instead psionics became the basis for technology. And magic, the most subtle art of manipulating the deepest resources of psionic potential.

Among the minds and souls of aegis, the human model is the center of gravity. The human mind falls, like a natural constant, right at the threshold level. The host of aegis were created by the phoenix in xanadau. Because of this they are considered daemon—outsiders. Until the time that nineveh was recognized they were naturalized and functioned much as all other mortals of the realm. They were gifted, of course, but embracing the will of god changed them into what they are now. The race became angelic, unwittingly trading their mortality and immortal souls for the immortality of mind, body and spirit. This is the way of divine appointment. For time untold the host served nineveh and there was no distinction between angel and demon. Then nineveh seduced (mystery), making her the avatar of god until she fell from grace— becoming the angel of death, darkness, and destruction. With her fell much of the host, the demonic, the ones who still worshipped (mystery). (mystery) denied her divinity, chose to remain angelic and used her influence to control the demonic, tenuously preserving the polarized host.

Over time the host discovered that the world was a heirarchy of gods. The world existed for the evolution of gods through the coil of life. And of them all, the phoenix was the only independant god. Autonomous. She alone had access to the congress of gods of the absolute. Realizing that by serving her they had put their own destinies aside, they became alarmed. At one time they had been mortal and responsible for their own immortal souls, but no longer. Their apprenticeship to her had bound them to aegis and the care of other mortals. Though they could not escape this, they did begin to conceive of ways to short circuit their contracts with phoenix. The angelic sought to become more like their soverign, while the demonic sought to become their own inventions. Thus began the dream of dragon and phoenix, the future lives of the host.

Of course there remained the little matter of the souls held hostage (more in their eyes than in hers). While contemplating the liberation of their own souls, the demonic discovered the grasping of others'. Thus came the final age of the phoenix's innocence. And the birth of the dragon empire.

Throughout the ages, the drama of the host remained masked under the collusion of reality. The host appeared mostly to be the most advanced, the most civilized of races in an intergalactic opera. Though the concepts which they embodied were part of their multi-culture, they did not wholly regard themselves in those terms. There had merely been the aegis—the protection of a vast civilization spanning unfathomable reaches of space and countless planets. The anxiety of the host was experienced as the rise of an empire. That empire polarized into two houses. The symbols of those houses were dragon and phoenix. That these houses were comprised of immortals and that they communed with an enigmatic and ellusive cosmic consciousness did not strike them as signs of what they were, it was only on the surface of their minds. Subconsciously, they all knew what they were, and they were even now waking to it. Ironically, it was av (and in her own way (mystery)) who saw it clearly first. Though it was already too late.

The change

Because the state of grace is subtle, the fall from grace is deceptively subtle. Among the host, the truth is sensed more through suspicion until it is too late. Those like athael, who held powerful positions, feel their fall most profoundly. At which time it is too late. Many of them actually use av to confirm their realization of their fall. Athael is unique in realizing what has happened and convincing others who have not fallen of the implications of what is happening. In general, those who fall had abilities consonant to their offices that occlude the obviousness of their grace. With the fall, as happens to athael, the scope of their power changes. Athael, who had once created worlds, believed merely that he found them. Though he was powerful and held the power to create things as he created av, he never suspected how much he had created in aegis. Upon his fall he discovers that his power is reduced to what he formerly considered his limitations, and no more can he "find" new, vast tracts of viable frontier.

Those who were demons fall to become dragons—humans evolved beyond the limits of form, and possessing vast psionic and magic power. Those who were angels devolve more gracefully into phoenix—self possessed godlings immortal in body, mind, spirit and soul. Unfortunately, most phoenix are susceptible to the possessive darkness of their dragon counterparts. Enslaved to a dragon, the phoenix creates a personal realm which the dragon can rule like a god. In time the two become one; the phoenix seeking to selflessly satisfy its own existence and coming to love even the dragon who subsumes them, the dragon selfishly seeking to become a part of the perfection of its imprisoned phoenix. Not surprisingly, the dragon usually kills the phoenix. And waits for it to be reborn and chases it again.

The fall takes a large toll on the host. Some of it remains true to phoenix, finally understanding what they are. The dragons consolidate their empire and inevitably drive most of the phoenix out of aegis—to its fringes and beyond.

Ashes of aegis

Here is a little twist, the dragon and the phoenix are expressions of certain extremes inherent in the being of individuals. To be a dragon or a phoenix is to be heavily focused toward one of those extremes. To be a phoenix is largely to be extremely self possessed and yet selfless. Passionate, and often self imolating. To be dragon is to be alien; other. A thing of dreams and shadows with an unreachable self, with a gentle possession of infinite others. The distinction is less manifest than male and female, but the attraction is far greater. The fall created many dragon-phoenix pairs. Of them, a few can be said to have stabilized. To have attained (av). This is the creation myth of the exotics, as both human and tiger paradigms are examples of the union of dragon and phoenix. Whether or not any of these pairs actually had anything to do with the exotics or even became exotics is doubtful, as the ashes were mostly the substance of the phoenix. Simply put, they are merely the children of phoenix, reborn in that union, never more to be of either part. They are the third expression of the paradigm, gods. Well, godlings anyway. Nin was family, so naturally they kept an eye out for her after this. Like her, many of them decided to lay low. But this is another story. So there is just this, for now. The phoenix is phoenix because that is how they how they called her down to them. They called for the soul's own identity and gave it a favorite expression. They forgot that their phoenix, being their god, was also a dragon; and this dragon persisted quite well through the long night of aegis.

Technology

Aegis is supported by a penumbric technology, or more generally, highly technical application of psionic, magic [and in particular cases mnemonic] physics. It is recognised that the greater sphere of the interface reinforces the universe and derives from the balance of information between the trinity of space, time and awareness. The heart of their science is the forging of an effective link between psionics [the natural ruling architecture] and magic [the remote/super-architecture] to expand the envelope of human events.

Penumbric metaprogramming has greatly shaped the world people of aegis live in. This has only just reached acceptance as a universal field theory [over a generation of immortals], and opened the minds of the most daring or perceptive to the implications measured in the overture. Much of the present and imagined technology we know has been adapted from or reverse engineered through this uft. The current issue has to do with scalar pattern dynamics; how to distinguish an immature avatar from an angel of demon, and how either relates to or with a mature avatar or a god.

Penumbra, pattern dynamics and divinity

As life includes death, divinity includes damnation. In the truth of the matter, the potential of that which is either expressed or possible is infinite and eternal. Much like the potential of that which is not. It is not necessary for a soul to believe in the concept of a soul for it to have one, it is only necessary for a soul to believe in itself. Whatever it believes itself to be. The principle of the whole equation is founded in simple self representation. All the rest is technique, art, perspective, will—the expression of existence. We are ultimately inconceivable, except to ourselves. We conceive of ourselves, we conceive of the existence of others and in many cases we conceive of others. We conceive of the possability of action and and the risk of consequences. We even conceive of the frightful weight of the infinite and eternal. And we conceive of ways to avoid seeing that staggering absolute. We curb that blazing intuitive star in the folds and veils of doubt and faith—train our attention with will and perspective.

We are all angels and demons, phoenix and dragon. We are gods, we are man, we are animal and we are earth. We are all and we are nothing. We are dreams and we are real. But in simple language, there are only allusions.

God, avatar

The potential in any soul can result in a god. All souls have the right to assume an avatar, but only a soul that is configured to cultivate other souls toward maturity can be deemed a god. Godhood is not a matter of power, but of refinement and self possession. A god is not obliged to be good. A god is only obliged to answer to the responsability of the realms within its domain. Angels and demons are paradigms that foster monad souls [first event souls]. Souls at this stage are mortal and can cease to exist. That is, fail to be self coherent. The hardest thing for a soul to do is recognize itself independantly. The soul of a dead angel/demon can pass to a more complex angel/demon if it is coherent. The soul becomes immortal when it finally attains awareness of its self [true self/potential].

Angel avatar

An angel is an apprentice, a student. It serves for the guidance, works for the training. It adheres to one master, ultimately, and obeys its will.

Phoenix avatar

A self possessed and autonomous soul, where the avatar is its principal domain. This type of god does not need a realm to support it but often chooses to participate in collusions, being motivated to intercourse. A phoenix avatar cannot molested against its will, and need not die. It does what it does, lives and dies, in pursuit of experience and the cultivation of a unique perspective.

Demon avatar

A demon is in exactly the same class of nature as the angel except the demon no more cares about or fears the will of an absolute authority. The demon serves only the definitions that bind it. The demon grows by taking what it wants from those who have it. It bargins, it cajoles, is schemes and it will even work to use its definition and design to capture what it will. 

Demons are forces that act outside of manifestation. Often they are manifestations of outside influences. However they figure, in a realm, demons are always alien, outsiders, and servants. Demon gods and avatars are usually hybrids. Some are truely what could be called outergods.

Dragon avatar

A dragon is complex and intriguing. It is often remote and dangerously selfless. Typically a dragon learns by observing, absorbing vast amounts of vicarious experience. A dragon thinks and applies. When it chooses to act it will do so with devestating effeciency. If it is forced to act it will do so devestatingly, more often than not. A dragon is a shapechanger as much because it cannot decide exactly what it is as because it cultivates the perspectives of others so far that it ends up obscuring its own. 
