http://www.helium.com/items/428285-is-there-really-such-a-thing-as-the-present

In our subjective experience of time there is only now. We exist in that eternal instant, poised breathlessly between the past and the future. To ask if there really is such a thing as the present, one might as well ask: is there really such a thing as time? It is not ridiculous to ask either question, but in asking it we need to seriously consider what we are asking. In part, we are asking what time is. At its core, time is change; we measure time to measure change and we order time in the sequence of cause and effect. 

Because our experience of time is completely subjective and because everything we are is dependent on that peculiar subjectivity, time is something we tend to take for granted. Even though we experience time subjectively, we think about time objectively by remembering our experiences as points of time in the past and imagining points of time in the future. Experience gives us an understanding of cause and effect that allows us to fabricate a chain of events.

When we relive the past, read through a story, watch a movie or imagine the future, we are processing that information in our present time but projecting our minds into a different time frame. That is, we still exist "here and now" but part of our consciousness is "then and there" and this internal process gives us an objective perspective of time. When the world is in us, we can control time, but when we are in the world, time controls us. The difference is based on where the process of change is. 

In our minds, change is occuring in the processing of information, but in the world around us, change is occuring in the processing of matter. I don't say energy because energy is driving the process; energy is the potential for change. Some might say that the universe is driven by forces, but forces simply direct and bind energy. We are part of that process, caught up in witnessing the moment of eternal resolution in a dance where every movement leads into another movement. 

In our effort to understand what we are witnessing, it is only natural to wonder if this moment in time is an illusion. Just because we experience change, it is not necessarily true that anything is changing except our perspective. Being inside of the process, we have no way of knowing if path we are on is truly a path in time or if time is simply the only way our minds can understand the path we are following in space. It forces us to focus on the aspect of change we perceive best: motion.



We have all experienced non-sequential time in dreams. When we are dreaming, our experiences are often jumbled and out of sequence. This happens because our minds are engaged in a different process than in our waking lives. In both cases, we are processing experiences and perceptions, but in dreaming those experiences and perceptions can be speculative or reflective. We are engaging our memory or our imagination. In all cases, we are engaging a stream of information. 



The ceaseless transformation that plays out in the universeawareness, consciousness, thought, perception, action and reaction. Time is our measure of the dynamic quality of existence that compliments the static quality of existence the latter of which allows the world and ourselves to be manifest.

The question is, does time actually exist or is it really a matter of perspective? We know that the present is a matter of perspective. It is a singular point in time in which our consciousness resides. It is the moment of realization that stands still while everything else changes, in a chain reaction that rigidly adheres to a causal order. This continuum is linear, and when we try to imagine the motion of an apparently three-dimensional universe through time we trick ourselves into constructing a four-dimensional space-time continuum.

The problem with that is that by doing so, we have asserted that space and time are interchangeable, positing a relationship similar to that of matter and energy. What is the problem exactly? Well, examine first the continuum of matter and energy. Matter can be reduced entirely to energy, which can neither be created nor destroyed. The thing that distinguishes matter from energy is structure. What distinguishes space from time without disassociating them completely? If it is dimension, then once again, structure steps in out of nowhere.

This is not necessarily a problem, if we consider that it is space and energy that constitute the true universal continuum. It provides for mutual resolution in that it answers the question of providing the universe with a capacity for structure and change. Space is static and energy is dynamic, giving us the framework for a universe with matter and time. Under this arrangement, time would be subjective and continuity would be a product of perspective. That is, time would be entirely relative. It would emerge in direct association with process.

To be specific, the universe would not unfold a certain way because of the influence of time, but rather that time would unfold in a certain way because of the process of the universe. This would be consistent with the way that time is created for us, through the processes of perception and interpretation. For us, the experience of time is created through the mechanisms of our sensory and nervous organs transmitting nerve signals to our brains, which process them. Somewhere in there, our minds get engaged and interpretation and experience occurs.

So, what does that make the present? In some ways, that just makes it the focal point of this perceptual-interpretive process. Where we are in time becomes dependent upon where we are in the stream of information flowing through this structured, energized space we call the universe. Does that sound crazy? Does it sound rational? Does it sound mysterious? It might as well; life as we know it is all of these things. The only part of it we get a back-stage pass to is the part that goes on in our minds. That's something to think about when we get around to wondering what, exactly, space is.  


Time in a distributed, process driven, information-based Universe

Posted in distributed process, time, universe at 6:17 am by eyeofparadox

In order to understand time it becomes necessary to ask if time is an objective or subjective medium. To be clear, by considering time subjectively I do not mean simply in terms of our subjective perception of time. The question asks if time is absolute, and thus events at different points in time persist in their own frame of reference with a constant relative position in time. Basically, it asks if there are actual positions in and structure to time. The alternative, subjective time, deals with the concept of time as being functional, an operation upon the objective structure of matter and energy in space like the constant balancing of an equation in which there is no actual time, just a present state of the equation.

The purpose for asking this question is because the subjective version of time is one that can be reproduced. We have been doing this since the first human being recounted a story of events, and have refined the process of simulating and manipulating time in computer modeling. The example that prompted this line of inquiry for me is a program called Celestia (http://www.shatters.net/celestia/) that models the universe in three-dimensions. The program allows the user to explore the three-dimensional universe, across vast distances down to the scale of a few meters. It also allows the user to observe celestial motion at varying speed, moving forward or backward in time, in real time or at extreme acceleration. Observing this in action, one can get a real sense of time as a functional operation.

Within the scope of a program like Celestia, time is simply a variable in the program equation; it is the rate of change in the system. Inside of a system, an observer would be subject to the rate of change in the system, and would deduce that no process could occur at a rate exceeding the speed at which changes in the system are resolved. It is actually important to note that an observer, subject to an environment in which actual time is dependent upon the process of change in the system, will only be confronted with the fully rendered product. If the process of change is distributed, occurring at the most basic level of the system, then there will be instances where time will exhibit other subjective properties.

In the event that time is a distributed process, in a varied environment there will be regions where the level of detail is low and thus changes resolve in the optimum process time, but in regions of extremely high detail, where resolution is high density, the process will lag. In a fluid system, the consequence would naturally be that a higher resolution transformation would require more time to process, thus time would appear to slow down in a dense environment. Thus, in such a universe, there would be a direct correspondence between information and mass. The incidence of more information at a point in the system results in persistent lag, which is a subjective distortion of time. A mass of information would always exhibit characteristics of attenuated time.

In a process driven information based universe, the consequences of particles with attenuated time characteristics would include attenuated spacial characteristics in reference to all dynamic interactions. The increase of information in any region would reduce the amount of change possible in that frame of reference. Any information coming into the region of density would become subject to the attenuation. Each mass of information, having the tendency to attenuate time, would also attenuate space — specifically, to compensate for the processing debt created by an information mass, the scope of transformation around that mass would be reduced, conserving energy. A natural consequence of this space-time dilation is of course the expansion of the universal frame of reference.
