The thing that all religions have in common is the emergence of individuals who have been committed to answering the difficult questions that we face in life. In indigenous cultures, individuals predisposed to this kind of wisdom have always been encouraged and cultivated as part of the tribe, in which the needs of the community were met by those who were capable of fulfilling those needs. The wise men of the tribe made it their duty to gather, enhance and pass on the wisdom from one generation to the next. There being no answers that could not be questioned, there were no final answers. Unfortunately, people wanted final answers, and so they turned to "higher authorities" to get them. 

The search for God had begun, and spiritual belief evolved into religion. Religions without personal founders were born of collected traditions and wisdom reaching back to a community's earliest ancestors. They were established under different circumstances, in different cultures, and among people with different languages. Islam, Christianity, Judaism and Buddhism (and to a lesser degree, Confucianism) can be put into a class apart from Hinduism and indigenous religions, by virtue of having a singular and notable founder. This gives them many significant similarities which can be found even in the circumstances in their founders' life experiences. 

How are Christianity and Islam different from Judaism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Daoism, Hinduism, or ancient, indigenous beliefs? Now there's a big question! There's actually an art to answering a question like this. On one level, newer religions differ from older religions by virtue of emerging in the shadow of older beliefs. The differences in religion spring from differences in the world in the time and place each religion was founded. They are cosmetic, rather than cosmic, differences. 

The human mind can only encompass ideas for which it has concepts and words to relate to with. This is true whether God is in the picture or not. Any divine inspiration a human might be given is limited by the language he or she attempted to communicate (or even think about) it in. A revelation from God, or any being, is only meaningful if the person it is revealed to is capable of understanding it. A revelation transmitted through a person is only valid if he or she is capable of communicating it accurately to someone else (and if no one else tampers with the message!). 

Certain basic concepts have to be in common use before a new idea can be introduced to people, and that results in any new idea being associated with the concepts used to explain or introduce it. In addition, newer religions often adopt or assimilate the ideas, concepts and or rituals of older religions in order to survive or gain acceptance. Conversely, the concepts and rituals of older religions sometimes have to evolve to cope with the imposition of the ideas of a newer religions. Thus, as a new religion is established, there is a lot of stuff mixed in that is not necessarily true. 

New religions break with old religions in the mistaken belief that the spiritual problems in the world are created by the spiritual practices being wrong. The truth has always been that the spiritual practices a community observed were less at fault than the material or physical practices they indulged. People of good character are people of good character, regardless of what language they speak, what rituals they practice, or what clothes they wear. People of bad character are people who are damaged. There are many ways people can become damaged, and some times the things that damage us can be overcome and allow us to become better people. 

The problems we face as human beings began when we started placing too much value on other things. The more important property, wealth and power became, the less important people became. The things that other people had or could provide became more valuable than the people themselves, and the habit of taking what we wanted from the world prompted some to take what they wanted from other people. We realized that we were a threat to ourselves, we became spiritual cannibals, preying upon each other--often in spite of our selves. We lost our balance. There remained among us those who devoted themselves to understanding life and finding balance in it, and they were rare enough that the most gifted of them stood out for generations in our minds as great teachers, capable of seeing and understanding the truth, the value of life, and the simple things we could do to keep it in balance. But, in telling people what to do, they unwittingly propagated the notion that selfless sacrifice and thoughtless obedience was demanded, and conditioned people in a way that made it easy for ruthless individuals to control and oppress entire communities, even nations. 

For those who sought wealth, power, fame, or immortality, religion was simply another means of exploiting people. Some religions are more prone to exploitation than others, and that seems to be based on how much influence and authority the individuals within it can possess. When any person is given the power to do great good, he or she is also given the power to do great evil, so it is not the tool that is at fault, but the people who use the tool, or tolerate its use. 

Every sound religion has tried to address this problem by encouraging habits that reduced the amount of damage people did to each other and providing means for helping those who get damaged to heal and become stronger. Few religions have been successful in cultivating enough "goodwill" in people to overcome the damage that had already been done. In part, because we refuse to let go of habits, methods and practices that damage us. We created something we don't know how to control, something that has become big enough to control us but is not capable of controlling itself. We think it is the solution to all our problems, but it has no true existence, no substance, no power, no influence or value apart from what it takes from us. The form we know it in is money, and the science of it is economics. What it really is, however, is the social contract we have all been forced to participate in. 

It is a contract in which our own value is indeterminate, in which nothing is held sacred. We live and work in the pursuit of money, confident in the belief that money will provide for our needs, ignorant of the fact that money simply tricks us into providing for each other's needs, and indifferent to the fact that our devotion to money allows us to be exploited by people, to be controlled by people simply because they control money. Strange place to end up, in a discussion about religion, but the funny thing is, religion fails because people never listen to this part of religion. Christ taught that the way to show devotion to God was by showing devotion to each other. The way to help God, was by helping each other. He was infuriated by the moneylenders in the temple because they supported themselves by exploiting people rather than through honest, useful and productive work. Buddha taught that desire for material things created nothing but suffering, and urged people to purge themselves of "wants" and devote themselves to meeting "needs." 

The only true and pure form of religion is in the understanding and acceptance of what is inherently true in life. The religions of yesterday, today and tomorrow will contain elements of the truth, and if we can recognize them, those glimpses of truth can guide us as individuals to realize the truth. It is what all religions are asking us to do. That is all any religion is really asking us to do. 
