\blue{BTDT}: \i{You assume the mind is a bridge between body and soul. This allows you to posit spiritual existence. Sorry, but that's circular reasoning -- a form of Begging the Question.}

\blue{ABCD} is correct. I proposed that the mind be considered a bridge between the body and the soul specifically to avoid any premature conclusions about the nature of the mind or soul at a time when we are unable to pursue a study outside of the realm of physical phenomena. In doing so, I clarified a point that is typically assumed whenever someone makes reference to a realm of spiritual phenomena. So, in fact, I removed a common assumption from the equation.

Anyone who understands the notion put forth in the movie \b{The Matrix} ought to be able to understand why I emphasize the significance of the mind, specifically by identifying it as the interface between the physical and the metaphysical. For one thing, it is the one non-physical thing each of us is acquainted with. It can be reasonably be argued that all metaphysics exist solely in the mind, but I have to point out that all physics can reasonably be argued to exist solely in the mind. I know someone will jump on that statement, and they will do so without regard to what I point out next. That statement is based on a simple observation and a general extrapolation. The observation is this. I exist in my mind. Everything I know about the universe is based on my interpretations of my perception of the structure (or construct) I have experienced as the universe. The general extrapolation is that every human being is confined to a similar POV. The only thing I can be certain of is that the universe is information. To be more specific, the universe is a complex structure of integrated information that is persistent and functional. This is not a new idea at all. Taken to an extreme, it is Solipsism. This is also what I was hinting at when I commented on "Sharing a Dream" as a protocol for telepathy. As much as a person might dispise the notion of considering the mind the foundation of anything, much less reality, the observation remains accurate. A person with some experience with the more sophisticated aspects of simulation understands that the quality we think of as physicality is one that can be created simply by imposing limits on interaction. Phrased slightly differently, behavior can be mathematically defined in the operation of object functions and parameters to create the phenomina of physicality. 

This is within the scope of our understanding. It is far from a complete explanation... it isn't quite an arguement for the consideration of a possability that is congenitally overlooked. This is just the first glimpse of an idea.  