A number of interesting points came up in the last string of posts (not including the exchange with \blue{What?})that I did not have the time to address to my satisfaction. As a preface to exploring them, I wanted to note that while I devote a significant amount of my attention to contemplating the various mysteries of existence, I have not had the time or opportunity to formulate a complete, coherent and comprehensive overview. So much of what I've shared here has been in the nature of thinking out loud. Some of the concepts I've presented have never been put into words before this, and only as well as I could manage in the moment. Everything I've said and anything I have yet to say can and probably will benefit from further consideration and refinement. 

So, one of the first points I wanted to address again was what I was saying about oblivion. In the past I've taken particular note of the sigificance of awareness as a quality or property innate to existence. In conjunction with my assertion that existence is not possible without the participation of awareness, and personal observations on the limits of my own awareness, I considered the prospect of oblivion. The concept of oblivion is easy to interpret as meaning the absence of awareness, and hence equivalent to non-existence. The fact of the matter is that things which are not aware can and do exist in the context of something else being aware of them. Philosphically, that which is not aware is dependant on that which is aware for its existence. The distinction between awareness and perception is easily overlooked, resulting in confusion in cases where the absence of perception is presumed to be synonymous with the absence of awareness. It is essential to remember that we are aware of things that we cannot perceive, and that in some cases our awareness of some things is our only means of perceiving them. Two immediate examples are the past and the future. 

In discriminating between awareness and perception, I returned to the question of oblivion and found that when the concept is interpreted as the awareness of nothing, it made a significant difference. For one, it suggests that awareness can be treated as a constant property innate to existence and possibly as a substrate or medium in which something else, like information, can exist. Even more important, recognizing oblivion as the awareness of nothing I glimpsed the first requirement of structure, the property of limitation, and associated it with a geometric principle. What I described previously as awareness reduced to a mathematical point. In deriving this observation, I stumbled into what I've been calling "point paradox" in reference to a situation that occurs in a primal awareness. To illustrate this I wrote the following two reflexive phrases that describe the paradox:

In the awareness of nothing, awareness is everything. In the awareness of everything, awareness is nothing. 

"Point Paradox" is a standard variant of a point of view paradox. Each statement describes awareness focused in a point. In the first case the result is a focusing of awareness that results in "self-awareness". The second case is essentially a following step, the all encompassing awareness is self inclusive, it is the theater in which an object is brought into existence, so in context to this thing awareness itself is not a thing. It is instead the frame of reference or substrate from which a thing (many things or all things) can be abstracted, principally, in the form of a mathematical point (or points).

Now, this is something I devised years ago, long before my first encounter with the cartesian theatre connundrum here, but the inherent paradox was one I recognized. "Point Paradox" does not posit a mind like the human mind as a foundational cosmos, but rather explores the prospect of innate awareness in an existential absolute conceived in an abstract fashion to possess such qualities that allowed it to exist in its own right. I found it ironic that the possible interpretations of "Point Paradox" results in a primal evolution from which three absolute values emerge simultaneously: 1, 0 and Infinity. In addition, the model features a stable, amorphous construct with a built in dynamic that serves as a foundation for space, time and mind, each according to continued structural evolution in interdependant media. The only assumption at the outset is the presumption of the quality of awareness and the established capacity of awareness to encompass and be subject to structure and information.

I note here that what I started out examining, oblivion, proved in this extrapolation to be an essential progenitor to structure, by providing a means of imposing limits upon formless awareness. Granted, it's a wild leap of speculation, but it has the convenience of employing only one invisible, intangible, mystical property... ironically, the same property that inspires us to believe in souls.