Beginning with the emergence of modern religious movements, the topic of religious pluralism and interfaith studies comes to light to address the problems and benfits of religious practices in the world. Certain religions convey mixed messages of tolerance and intolerance, and the dichotomy of scripture and faith presents the greatest challenge to the future of organized religion. While religion offers guidance for how human beings can coexist, their teachings are crippled by claims to exclusive legitimacy and requirements that are not universally acceptable to people of diverse cultures and character. Certain religions offer particular hope by virtue of trying to emphasize the truth in all religions, like Baha'l or the Unitarian Movement, while others try to encourage respect for compatible beliefs the way Islam espouses for Christianity and Judaism. There is some hope that the major world religions can achieve peaceful coexistence through ongoing dialog, but that hope is limited by the flaws each religion possesses, through which they are vulnerable to manipulation and exploitation. Fortunately, there is one religion that can and does exist compatibly with all religions. It has no formal recognition, but it embodies the best of all religions, it is practiced by all human beings to some degree, and can be adapted specifically to any formal religion. With your indulgence, I wanted to introduce it here.

The True Religion

There is only one true religion. It is as old as the human race, created as part of humanity. You already know about it. You already practice it. You already know what it requires from you and from the people around you. It provides comfort and shelter. It conquers fear and hatred. It cannot be limited by race, gender, status or wealth. It can be practiced by those who are good and those who are evil. When it is practiced faithfully, it sanctifies and redeems those who practice it. It unites individuals, couples, families, and even enemies. It can unite a community. It can exist between communities. It can unite nations. It can exist between nations. It can unite all people who embrace it. It can connect the living and the dead. It can exist for a moment or for all of eternity. It can be earned but it cannot be bought. It can be given and shared but it cannot be taken, and the more you give it, the more you get from it. It is strengthened by love, respect, tolerance and kindness. It is spontaneous and it is premeditated. It endures in the face of prosecution and persecution. It is intangible but it's bonds are stronger than death. It fails only in its absence. It is powerful enough to shape the world yet fragile enough to wither at a thought. It survives only when it is cherished. It is true to the purest teachings of all religions. It is true unto itself. It is called Friendship.

Many religions have come into existence trying to encourage true friendship within humanity, and every religion has been vindicated when human beings have become true friends. Many religions have failed because they failed to be inspired by or to inspire true friendship, but above all, they have failed to observe the divine nature of friendship or to promote friendship with the divine. Only in friendship can the world be united and only in friendship can the world endure. Most importantly, only friendship can provide an answer for what God (whoever or whatever God is) wants or needs from us. The only thing we could ever offer to a perfect and all powerful being is our selves. That is the only thing God can gain from us. In exchange, God gives us the inspiration to be our selves.

Before I go, I have one last challenge to make. Human beings have a terrible history of being cruel to each other over the slightest differences. How then could there ever be any hope of friendship between human beings and God, who is so vastly different from us? It is natural to be overwhelmed with awe by very thought of a being as powerful as God, but by fearing and worshiping God, we place a vast distance between ourselves and God. We deny God the only thing God asks of us. Ultimately, the only way for God to be close to us is by dwelling within us, a part of us and yet apart from us. Not just as parts of us, but as part of everything in us and around us that is not us. Thus, every kindness we bestow upon each other is bestowed upon God, Every insult, or injury we inflict upon each other is inflicted upon God. This has all already been said. It is time that we began understanding it.

Silence

 In my preceding post I used only two potentially offensive words, offensive only in combination and context. True and religion. I was expecting to get some negative responses, but no response at all is even more disappointing. There is nothing to address, nothing to discuss, and so the idea--a very good idea, by the way--is just ignored. Oh, and yes, I can say it's a good idea and that is not because I think of it as my idea at all. I just arranged the words. The idea is exactly what I described. It is your idea. It is our idea. I know you've never heard anyone call friendship a religion, but it is what religion is trying to foster, it is the natural example of how to live with each other in peace. If people were not so fearful and selective in their friendship, we really would not have the problems we do now. And that was the point of the whole post.

I am sick and tired of people who complain that the problems of the world are too complicated to solve. Life is complicated. It doesn't come any other way. Letting that stop you is simply quitting, giving up on life. If the job seems too big for you, ask for help! If the first person you ask looks at you funny and walks away, ask someone else! If you can't figure out what to do, find someone who can, and if he or she can suggest something to do, help do it. The last thing I ever want to do is play around with religion, but this class has made it clear that religion is now part of the problem. I wrote this bit on friendship on a whim, in a moment of inspiration, but I would not hesitate to preach friendship in response to anyone preaching religion, because friendship is something real and true within our own power and it will accomplish all the things I credited it with.

I've been accused of preaching before in this class, when I was simply trying to make substantial comments required for my grade. I might as well come right out and preach, loath as I am to offend anyone, because I finally understand what preaching is all about. It is what happens when someone realizes, "Hey, this is important! We need to do something about this! We are responsible for this, and we're ignoring it!" My experience does not encourage me to think that I can make a difference, I don't expect anyone to listen or think about what I might say; but because I have faith in humanity, I've always said what I thought out loud, because I know that anyone who does listen and think about it is going to be helped, because by doing that, they are doing that is really needed. If people did it on their own, without prompting, well, we would all be our own prophets, and the differences in our points of view on the same truths would be used to create a vision of the world with greater depth.

I know I'm different. But, I am here for the same purpose. I'm here to learn, but more importantly I am here to apply what I learn. That is what compels me to write the long posts. You can ignore it; it won't hurt my feelings in the least. I just hope you understand that I don't write all this for my own personal benefit. I'm doing this for you. This is what I'm getting out of this class. I want to share as much of it as I can. That is all.


David B. Roberson
david.b.roberson@gmail.com
