A long and wondering thread, but as yet several things have not been addressed. I'll skip the usual boiler plate about universal conceptual definition... most of us already understand that a clear discussion depends on establishing the meaning of terms and concepts. 

It occurs to me now to ask if, by speaking of computers as psionics machines, this referrs to a machine that provides a functional capacity or capability we tend to think of as being psionic (fictional or otherwise)? In other words, that psionic abilities such as telepathy and telekenisis could be acheived through the further development of digital technology?

Or, are we taking the liberty of asserting that psionics, while unproven, might be real and that the computer technology we currently use can in some fashion be incorporated into the ways such abilities might be expressed? I am interested in seeing where this line of speculation can go. I did read the topic as having an inclination toward psionic phenomena as being extant, and addressed my comments in that sense. I for one would find it much easier to address the topic of this thread if we clarified what it is we mean here when we speak of psionics and in what manner or context a psionics machine arises.

If we are embracing the field of parapsychology we really are not that far from discussing outright mysticism. We can be certain that we will be treading on the sensabilities of conventional thinking. It just can't be helped. Might I ask if this thread is open to the in depth discussion of psionics, or do you prefer that we take that area as given and focus exclusively on the qualities and characteristics of a machine that exploits or is exploited by psionics?

I set out to refine and clarify a set of concepts pertaining to psionics and psychic ability in reference to the feasability of reproducing or creating the effects or functions represented by such things as telepathy, telekinesis, precognition, et al, in a machine. I speculated that some qualities are properly defined as psychic in nature, such as awareness and will, and posited that those qualities would have to be reproduced mechanically as a prerequisite for machine psionics, which in fact is the topic of this thread. 



Psionics can loosely be considered the study of psychic phenomena, those things that originate in or are of the psyche. By classic definition, the psyche is inclusive of the soul and mind, neither of which can be scientifically proven to exist and remain as observed phenomena in association with the function and activity of the brain and extended nervous system. 

The mind and soul find their "home" in the spiritual realm, among other invisible, intangible truths like awareness, understanding, intuition, emotion and apprehension. 

The mind is the quintessential psionics machine. It is a complex structure of perception and interpretation which focuses awareness into understanding. The brain, on the other hand, is the fundamental computer. Some consider the mind to be nothing more than that computer's operating system, and honestly there is a parallel. However, the fact is that the mind--or the soul, if we want to embrace the entire concept of the psyche--also happens to be the operator of that computer. 

I have always considered all matters concerned with the existence and nature of the soul, and that can be derived from the existence and nature of the soul, to be a matter of great import. 

I am not a huge fan of the "mind as a by product of electrochemical activity in the brain" school of thought. I mean, who wants to think of themself as a side effect. More importantly, that line of thinking ultimately excludes the possability of a soul unless something even more exotic is introduced. However, in approaching all of existence from a foundation in physics, no alternative is likely to emerge from science. As a way of keeping that door open for the moment, I posit a general alternative for speculation. That is, I suggest that the brain could function in a transmitter/transciever capacity in which the mind serves as a bridge between the body and the soul. In effect, the psyche exists outside the realm of the physical universe and the body serves it as an avatar, a remote vehicle for interacting with and exploring this universe. 

This really only formalizes the assumption that is necessary in order to posit any spiritual existence or reality. 

In anticipation of the obvious criticism, I could have just as easily said that the mind (and or soul) exists in another dimension of the universe. At least if the mind is regarded as a phenomena intrinsic to this universe and not, as a part of the soul, a part of something independant of this universe. I did not say this initially because the broader philosophy I work with regards a soul as an absolute expression, and things such as space, time and mind are descrete media in which the possabilities and potentials of absolutes find representation and expression. I won't say more than that now, since it would certainly go off topic.


A general trend in the development of a technology is that it tends to follow or closely coincide with advances in the study of similar natural phenomena. To wit, in the era when scientists experimented with the fundamentals of mechanics, we experienced the birth of an industrial era, and when science and medicine began to explore the functions of the brain, we entered the era of information technology. As a general premise, it would follow that a psionic machine would arise only in an era when psychic phenomena became subject to reliable observation and study, which would first necessitate that individuals demonstrably possessing such abilities emerge. 

I explored the idea of technology based on the emergence and study of psionic abilities in the human population, and I have seen many stories which featured devices that might be described as psionic machines. For example, in reference to a telepathy machine, I've run across stories exploring virtual reality technology where non-invasive EM (or related field effect devices) were employed as the mechanism for mind-machine interface. I have a horrible memory for names, and this sometimes extends to titles, so forgive me if I cannot immediately cite references. The movie Strange Days does come to mind as utilizing this type of technology. There is not much speculation on how it works or why, since it is largely a plot device. 


From my stand point, an artificial psionics machine would require first, the capacity for awareness, and second, the capacity for self awareness. I feel that this would invite the third thing necessary for a machine to possess that quality we experience as beings: will. 

Awareness and will are the fundamental psychic abilities. The function of awareness and will are what enable a conscious, rational mind to assume control of and utilize the neurological structures through which thought is translated into action. It is a phenomenon that can be observed and studied, but which continues to defy scientific understanding. 

I am indifferent to arguements about magic and miracles. Our basic existence is about as magical as you could ever want. It is the embodiment of the magical notion "mind over matter". Existence is a subjective condition, and that suggests that a purely objective perspective cannot encompass the truth about ourselves or existence. That possability is excluded by objectivity. That is the paradox of it all. 

I will point out, however, that whatever the mind is, it does in fact exist in this univers, it does in fact interact with this universe, it is in fact the very thing in which our entire association with the universe is contained. We don't live in the world. We live in the image of the world that is created in our minds, by virtue of the conscious and unconscious interpretation of our perceptions. The only thing that makes the world real to us at all, the only thing that distinguishes it from dreams, is the constancy and continuity of the construct itself and our interaction with each other within it. 

We are the only things in existance capible of perceiving a thought, a feeling, a dream. We are psionics machines. We will not build machines capible of transmitting thoughts, because we eschewed that ability ourselves, and would have to embrace it again in order to replicate it. Science will have to embrace the mind, and even what the mind itself has chosen conceptually to represent itself--the soul--before "psionics" can ever be more than a dream. We need to come to grips with the psychic abilities we already, needfully, possess, before we can entertain the possabilities we apprehend within ourselves.

Does that give you pause? Did I just suggest that there might be some truth to such things as telepathy and telekinesis? There is as much proof as science requires. The universe is built on a foundation of invisible, virtually intangible forces. Gravity, magnatism, electricity, and the nuclear forces are virtually incomprehensible to us, but science recognizes them. Science has found them at the root of everything. The mind exists in respect and relation to those same forces. Somewhere, somehow, on a quantum level, the mind can exert direct influence on those forces, or products of those forces, to impel our bodies to action. You have to accept that as a fact, or the question of existence ultimately becomes moot. The mind is our interface with the universe, with the construct upon which reality is founded. There is no question of belief here, because to question this is to simply examine what you already know. What we think of as knowledge is actually a creation. It is a process of translating what each of us understands individually into representations that can be shared universally. A process of defining impressions, impulses, sensations, emotions... thoughts... and communicating them. 

If we all were truly psychic beings, would it be so strange that the protocol for telepathy would be "sharing a dream"?

I was hoping to provoke a few thoughts... When I say we would have to embrace that ability again, I am not speaking in the sense of human generations or ages, but rather of normal human development and personal experience. 

I mean, of course, that this "ability" evolved hand in hand with sentience. And, in consideration of your faith (and at some time I can discuss what I call the embracing faith, if you are interested) I am not speaking solely of Classical Human Evolution as opposed to Creation, but of the process through which a brain acquires a mind, as a mind acheives individuality, through individuality self-possession and thus a soul. Those faiths that practice prayer already possess a strong, unstated belief in telepathy. The idea that our thoughts and emotions are broadcast into the universe is not uncommon, nor is the belief that our minds are influenced by subtle impulses from divine and abominable influences. We have those beliefs in virtually all cultures because they aptly describe things we all experience. There are many instances where "great minds think alike" and that fits the definition of telepathy to some degree, but more significant are those moments of wordless communication, shared awareness. 


I would love to go into speculation on how telepathy worked, but as there is no body of work on how thought works, what would be the basis for discussion? 

The basics of telepathy can be grasped in your basic high school physics resonance theory. As I said before, we are the only things capible of perceiving thoughts, and this occurs in our own minds... and if you believe that every thought you perceive is your own, you are practicing a common form of self deception. The level of background noise in the average mind is simply too much mental activity for any single brain to account for. They are echoes. Perhaps I am speaking with more authority than I ought, having yet to establish myself, but I speak from the advantage of having studied this phenomenon for easily twenty years or more. 

But returning to your question, "again"... well, there are two sides to that. One is the process in every individual's life when we errect walls of perception and interpretation to protect our individuality and preserve our own identities. Occasionally something slips through a crack in those walls and we experience, as adults, "uncharistic" thoughts or moments of rapport. The other is the process of civilization, the evolution of cultures and philosophies. As human beings have become more "sophisticated" and turned away from spiritual life to obsess over material existence, the tendancy to embrace and explore those aspects of the psyche that operate invisibly and intangibly diminished. We convinced ourselves, as a people, that direct communication, mind to mind, was impossible because there was no medium, no mechanism, involved. Well, today we know that there are invisible mediums and mechanisms capible of such transmission, but the notion that telepathy is impossible had already make it's impression on the collective psyche. So, in that sense, we must reclaim that ability before we can progress in our understanding of the mind, to a point where we jump from radio transmission to mind/machine transmission. 


There is something in all of us that aspires for revelation, that hungers for the manifestation of a great spiritual truth. The Holographic Model of nature/reality is still hovering on the brink of plausability, last I checked, primarily because many of the theory's adherents point out such spiritual ramifications as life after death. I think that the impetus to develop a machine interface with the mind is in part an institutional desire to use the machine to bring the mind itself into a respectable position for science... a point where it can be weighed and measured. 


I would like to point out, humbly, that even though a thing has not been proven to exist one can not reasonably conclude that it does not or can not exist. In truth, very few events are subjected, or can be subjected, to the kind of testing necessary to establish a hypothesis. General observation suffices for most of human experience. That said, it is reasonable enough to suppose that a thing might exist, and further, that many things cannot be tested because to some degree they are misconceived of. Psionic abilities do not seem very probable, but at this time it is not appropriate to claim that they are impossible. 

I have a great respect for science, but I have a greater concern about the truth. I suppose that makes me a philosopher, and my philosophy is grounded in trying to understand the psyche. I do not know how useful the truth of the soul might be, but I do believe it is of paramount importance, and that is the only guarantor of my integrity I can offer. If I cannot apprehend the truth of the soul or the mind, what purpose can it serve to delude myself or anyone else with fictions? 

I might be wrong in my observations or interpretations, but I will tolerate no challenges to the integrity with which I present them. 

Original thought depends on the ability to challenge assumptions, to posit how a thing might work even when there is yet to be a test formulated to challenge that speculation. Never assault open mindedness with small mindedness. 

I am not attacking scientific method, I am simply pointing out that it is too narrow to use as a model for all thinking. Science is, quite literally, a body of knowledge. It is merely the record of what we, as a species, currently know. That is a pittance compared to what we don't know. If we are to know more, we have to think about what we don't know. We have to develop ways of thinking about things we don't know, and we have to be as responsible about how we approach and cultivate those things as we are about devising and testing hypotheses.

A true scientist will always admit that science is a deliberately and explicitly limited discipline. Science concerns itself with finding answers to questions about what things are and how they work, but does not concern itself with the issue of why. That, a scientist will tell you, is a question reserved for the disciplines of philosophy and religion. In addition, the scope of science is typically limited to matters that have a useful or practical application. In matters where the subject matter lies outside of the realm where it can be subjected to controlled experiment, science also withdraws. Science is ultimately limited to presenting facts and educated speculation in the form of theories. We all know there is much more to life and the world as we know it than that. In addition, facts are not equivalent to truths. Some facts are true and some facts are not, and most are simply--to a greater or lesser degree--accurate. 

Science limits itself as a discipline to one single method of operation and anything which cannot be subjected to that method is excluded from science. Science is a very good and reliable tool for testing the mechanics of reality. But, when all you've got is a hammer, then all your problems begin to look like nails. Humanity needs other tools, and they need to use those tools in a cooperative and coordinated way. 


The long sought and as yet unattained Unified Field Theory is an attempt to come up with a method of predicting the nature, function and behavior of the Universe. 

Inevitably, a computer would be employed, utilizing the mathematical formulas and algorythms of such a theory, to predict the outcome of events. To a lesser degree, the general application of science meets the general criteria of a psionics machine geared toward providing us with a degree of precognition. Obviously, we'll continue to call it something more rational sounding, like "statistical analysis" or "modelling". 

The use of science to determine as best as possible the most successful method of acheiving a goal, from building a bridge to plotting a trajectory to Mars, is a practical exercise in artificial precognition. Actual precognition is primarily imagination, and it is as accurate as the individual's internal capacity to model future events based on previous experience, observation and deduction. It's not a mystical ability, unless you neglect to examine the process, and it need not be regarded as a mystical ability. It's just predictive modeling combined with visualization.  

Computers are used to model events in an attempt to predict their outcomes. One could compare this sort of function to the psychic ability of precognition, since the actual event the model attempts to predict would necessarily occur in the future, and thus is an event not experienced. In this application, we can call this machine precognition, but, as I pointed out, in application it would be called something else. 







