Transsexuals in the workplace

Twice, in the many jobs I have had, I have worked in a business where an individual was in the process of transitioning. For a brief period, I myself was in the process of transitioning on the job. For those of you who might not know, transitioning is the arduous process of preparing for Gender Reassignment Surgery, which is, as far as labels are concerned, the objective for which certain individuals are identified as transsexuals. Ironically, in two former cases, at the time I learned that someone was transitioning on the job, I was in my final weeks at each business and the manner in which I learned of it was both alarming and a bit frightening. I heard, in both cases, through the grapevine, and not in a polite "Oh, by the way, did you know...?" kind of way.

In my own case, I was working as a temp in the process of being hired on, until the company went through a merger and I was laid off in favor of employees that had been acquired during the merge. I had disclosed my condition and course of treatment only to the agency I had been placed through, so I have no reason to believe that my lay-off was related to my condition or my attempt to transition. The agency was supportive and cooperative, and not at all at fault when the job I was placed in next proved incompatible. The anxiety I felt about transitioning on the job was largely due to what I experienced as witness to other transsexuals in the process of transitioning on the job.

I would be hard pressed to quote any single, nasty remark, and yet I doubt I really need to. I never rule out the possibility that some people are more tolerant and sympathetic, as in my own experience. However, the views that I heard being expressed by people with no experience of the misery and agony of being transgendered were mockingly cruel and intolerant, or worse, indignant. The ironic thing is that every reaction I witnessed underscored how powerfully gender and identity are related. By our very existence - including myself by intent if not by accomplishment - transsexuals somehow threaten the identities of the men and women around us, calling into question what it means to be a man or a woman.

The underlying problem, however, is that our insistence on viewing ourselves as men and women is so great that it can obscure our view of an individual as a person. I often wonder if people realize the full significance of a topic like transsexuals in the workplace. On the surface, in the most superficial way, a transsexual in the workplace challenges the status quo, but in truth one draws unwanted attention to the problems that are inherent in the status quo. It draws attention to issues concerning identity, conformity, sexuality, morality, and even sanity. It demands more thought and consideration than people are usually willing to give the matter.

As a transgendered person, I can state flat out that the attitudes most people have about transsexuals have been devastating. The very idea of transitioning on the job absolutely terrifies me. I can barely hold it together posing as a man and drawing no attention to myself; the idea of trying to function on a professional level while undergoing such a personal and awkward ordeal drove me to the brink of suicide. I doubt I can ever make a "normal" person understand just how debilitating it is to be transgendered, or what it costs over the course of one's life. I can try to explain that the motivation for transitioning is survival, that the condition is potentially fatal if not treated, but that is a bit like hitting someone with a brick.

Consider for a moment, if the average man or woman finds it confusing and uncomfortable to work with a transsexual, how much more confusing and uncomfortable must it be to be a person caught between genders? Women who are concerned about sharing a restroom with a male-to-female transsexual experience the same fear of potential assault transsexuals feel when forced to use the men's restroom. A female-to-male transsexual using the men's restroom is taking a far greater risk than a natural female would using the men's restroom. In either case, transsexuals are generally too worried about what could happen to them to risk drawing attention to themselves by invading someone else's privacy.

At worst, a transsexual looks on a member of the gender-congruent sex with awe and envy over what nature was kind enough to give them. One of the advantages gender-congruent females have is that they can look at each other, even admire each other's appearance, without causing fear. An appraising look from a male, even when it's innocent, can easily feel threatening to a woman - and to a transsexual. Of course, this undercurrent of fear is attributed to the sexual intentions presumed to motivate a man simply because he is male - and being male, is often presumed of pre-op male-to-females. The problem here is that neither the physical sex nor the gender are real determinants of sexual interest or intentions. The pre-op male-to-female might be a lesbian, but she still has as much right to use the women's restroom as a gender-congruent lesbian.

Transsexuals in the workplace are subject to as much anxiety and confusion as their presence causes, but at least they have the courage to face that confusion and rise above it. Usually, they can cope with their ordeal because the have professional, therapeutic support, and the people who work with them have the same support available to them if required. Most gender therapists will provide group counselling for friends, family and co-workers having to cope with transition second-hand. If they cannot do it personally, they will be able to refer a professional who can, and while it might seem like an inconvenience, it is a way for people to get answers and clarifications they need to understand what is going on and to know that there is nothing to be afraid of.

On occassion, however, there will be people who are not willing to understand, who will insist that the transsexual use a separate facility. In most cases, this is something that the transsexual is more than willing to do if the facilities are available and not ridiculously inconvenient. Communicaton, counselling and compromise are the keys to making a workplace comfortable for everyone, the transsexual and his or her co-workers alike. Without understanding and sincere support, however, a workplace can quickly become too hostile to endure on top of the normal stresses of working. In my own experience, I sensed dangerous and disturbing prejudices and hostility lying under the types of comments, and in particular the jokes, made by co-workers concerning transsexuals in the workplace or at large.

It is intimidating and it can undermine job security at a time when job security is absolutely essential if one is to have a successful transition. I have to respect the individuals who have fought their way through all the obstacles, and I ache for the all the obstacles that can not be overcome. In time, I might find my own way across, and proceed in spite of the denial and objection of the world around me. There are so many ways that the world we have created denies us the freedom to be ourselves, but nothing, not even biology, can prevent us from being who we are. The body, the clothes, the job title, the car, the house, and the community we live in may define the circumstances of our lives, and the opportunities we choose between, but until we understand how much we give up by accepting only what we are given, we will never understand who we really are.

Transsexuals in the workplace might make people uncomfortable, but is that because they are crossing some invisible line between masculine and feminine, or is it because they provoke unwanted thoughts and feelings about what makes us who we are? Or is it because transsexuals are sending out the message that who we are is so much more important that what we seem to be, it is worth upsetting the status quo? Not only is it worth it, it is necessary. If our society can not allow people to find their own place within it, it is not a society worth living in. A society with no tolerance for difference has no tolerance for individuality and thus no respect for individuals. The final measure of the worthiness of any society is in how it deals with its misfits.

If you happen to discover that there is a transsexual in your workplace, rejoice, because that suggests that your workplace and the people you work with actually have some respect for the people who work there as individual human beings.