Is God an invention of man's mind or a true being? Yes. Exactly. There are two sides to every coin, and in the case of God, these are the two sides that have to be dealt with. Is there a singular entity to whom we can refer to as God, the creator of the universe we live in? Absolutely. Does that tell us one thing about who God is, what God is, or what God really has to do with us. Not one bit. The very concept of God ensures that any being capable of embodying it is self defining and self realized, meaning that God is whoever or whatever God feels like being -- up to and including all of us. To know who or what God is, requires us to know God's mind, and frankly, without concepts to pin them down with, we have a hard time grasping and understanding much simpler ideas. 

The idea of God is much easier to contemplate than the mind of God, and we are still having a lot of difficulty with the idea of God. After all, here we are arguing the point yet again. Life itself is ridiculously improbable, when all of the facts are taken into account, which is probably why people tend to attach a great deal of significance to it, going as far as suggesting that there is some greater power at work to account for it. Life became more complicated when people decided not only to suggest it, but to give a specific entity credit for it and insist that the rest of us take their word for it. Unfortunately, there is always a point where the author of a story becomes an authority, where the form or interpretation of the story becomes more important than the truth that inspired the story. 

Ancient gods are archetypes, characters based on real people used in stories inspired by real events, and like all stories passed on, they are exaggerated. Legend inspired myth, myth inspired theology, but the point is that the concept of gods was born through this process, gods were extracted from human character, and they were used as examples and warnings to civilization. When the gods were good, they were very, very good. When the gods were evil, they were very, very evil. In a time when people had no respect for what they did not fear, the gods were propped up to make people fear the consequences of their actions. It was the only way to get people to think about what they were doing. Unfortunately, the concept of a higher power was also seen as a means to appeal for divine intervention, and higher authority was used to endorse beliefs and actions that were exploitive and wrong. 

The ancient gods were not only reflections of human beings; they reflect the character of humanity at the time they were created. If you look at the situation historically, if you look at the evolution of language and concepts, most spiritual concepts including that of gods are based upon the projection of human qualities and characteristics out into the universe. This is confirmed in the doctrine "as above, so below" where gods possess the creative and destructive powers in reality that human beings possess in their minds. Prior to the establishment of gods, the world saw the establishment of tyrants, men who simply took what they wanted, used who they liked and abused everything as they saw fit. 

While terrible things that happened in nature were attributed to the wrath of the gods, these punishments were of course random and proved the gods to be arbitrary and indifferent. They were worshiped out of fear and habit, but they were unworthy of worship. Eventually, people gave up trying to imagine how these perverse celestial beings could have cooperated in anything as awesome as the creation of the world, and given the unity of the diversity of life, concluded that it was all made by one entity and thus, that entity, the Creator, was alone worthy of worship. Enter God. Unfortunately, the old gods had been fickle because humanity is fickle and a singular, all-powerful god was expected to assert his authority -- in general, behave like a tyrant among gods.

The notion of a greater spirit or creator has always been a part of spiritual belief, and can be found in such concepts as the Dao, but the God of Abraham was a real innovation and people were not ready for Him. Moses had to beat his followers over the head with God to get them to take God seriously. However it is looked at, the one thing that can not be denied is that any divine revelation, even the revelation of God Himself, had to get through the filter of human ignorance and misconception. To this day people have a hard time grasping that God could be speaking to us constantly, but we either refuse to hear, listen or understand what He is saying. Why would that be different back in the time of Moses when it is so obviously true today? If it was true then, and today, why would it be different in the time of Muhammad? 

Even if faith demands unquestioning acceptance of the existence of God, a rational mind has to take note of the evolution of the concept of God, because humans needed to have a concept of God before they could have recognized the existence of God. 