Hello again, Adam. Forgive me, but I am unfamiliar with the origin and context from which the Cartesian Theatre emerges so I can only treat it as it has appeared here in this thread. I am not sure if it is describing an observer paradox or simply stating a question about the nature of consciousness. However, I can say this. I have not yet proposed an answer to the mind-body problem, but simply wedged open a door and proposed that we look at it from a different perspective. The questions you asked go beyond merely pointing out the position the mind occupies and the significance of that position. 

John, once again, has grasped the implication precisely. Awareness is essential to existence, but not exclusively. Together with a structure that is variable and persistant, in a context that is accessible to perception and interpretation, existence can resolve coherently. A universe that is lacking in the participation of awareness, perception and interpretation of structure that includes static and dynamic elements would be meaningless. Put more simply, for us existence is an absolute. If any one of the mentioned aspects were missing, existence would not be possible. 

Before going further, I would like to point out that however unsettling it might seem to propose that existence is grounded in a mental process, the current understanding of existence, grounded in a physical process, stands on a foundation of quantum mechanics (in which physics breaks down), the invisible, intangible forces of electric, magnetic, gravitic, strong and weak nuclear fields and bounded by entropy and the supermassive energy of black holes (where physics breaks down). As far as I know, there are no answers to where space and energy or supermass came from or how something abstract like mathematics can account for the structure and behavior of it all. As near as I can tell, the physical universe is actually an energy/information universe.

Because of our experience with life in the world in a material context, it is easy to understand our predisposition toward thinking of existence in material terms. We function in an object oriented environment. However, it is both feasible and viable to approach existence from a non-material perspective in a purely conceptual context. Obviously, as participants subject to existence, we are not in a position to subject such a universe to comprehensive experimental analysis. We simply are not in a position to determine whether the universe is a structure or a construct as long as we find ourselves inside it. 

I can accept the criticism of fallacy, at this point, in the sense that I am aware that positing a universe like this, I am making allowances for things that would, from a physical stand point, be mental or spiritual in nature. But, it is not the intent of this speculation to justify any of these things mererly by positing their existence. Because this is more of an exercise in logic, the purpose of proposing a mental foundation is to allow for the logical analysis of what could or should be possible in such a context, followed by an assessment of what is more or less probable in the application of this model. Also, I am only extending it here in order to address the questions of psionics as a class of phenomena and machines as being exploitable by or capible of exploiting such phenomena. Whether or not this method accurately reflects or predicts the truth about existence is incidental to that purpose. 

If asked, I will of course expand upon or explain any point that requires clarification. Adam has, essentially, asked the first question with regard to the structure of the mind. The question seems to have a built in assumption that the mind is a composite construct or an incorporated structure. The gist of the question, however, was "in or upon what does the mind depend?" and the answer was present but not explicit in my previous remarks. I believe I mentioned that the philosphy behind my remarks considers a soul to be absolute, and the mind is resident in the soul. Doubt that, question that or criticize that as you will, but as far as I am concerned the existence of the soul deserves the benefit of the doubt, because the alternative is not only oblivion, it renders life itself somewhat pointless. Anyway, as long as I am inclined to insist upon the existence of the soul it might as well serve a significant purpose in the scheme of things. Isn't philosophy fun?

Now, kidding aside, I know that does not answer or explain much as far as what the mind and the soul are or how they work. You know I cannot give you an answer or an explanation. I can only extrapolate through deductive logic what is required for them to function in specific capacities and regards as postulated by observation or inquiry.

That reminds me of an old saying about "mind over matter"... "I don't mind, so it doesn't matter!"

:grin:

For the individual, existence is a self-evident truth, which is represented in the philosophical, "I think, therefore I am," but as you note, establishing the truth of other peoples' existence is difficult. Even with telepathy, there would remain some question as two minds in rapport would be, to some extent, of one mind. It would be possible to establish that the participants were distinct personalities with unique experiences but how would one determine that the other was not merely a different aspect of himself? It would come down to the assertiveness of the individuals and their demonstration of autonomy. 

Which brings to mind a consequence of establishing the mind as a by-product of neurochemistry. If the mind is created by the brain, then the mind is ultimately, in essence and nature, an expression of the universe. That is, a mind is merely an expression of universal potential and all minds, being dependant on common phenomena like electricity and magnetism, are subordinate to a single entity: The Universe. In this case, by virtue of common nature and structural compatibility, we are all expressions of the same entity and our "soul" is this universe. Given that, I don't see why telepathy, empathy, esp or any other passive psionic ability could not occur. Similar structures, or dependant constructs ought to have at least the potential for such orders of sensitivity simply through the mechanism of resonance. Of course, all the steps in this line of speculation are not represented here, but I think only moderate imagination is necessary to grasp the implications. 