We face a problem, a problem we created and which we have contributed to ceaselessly for all of history. We make assumptions about the nature of existence based upon our perception of the universe, our interpretation of it as a concrete material mechanism, in spite of the fact that all we know of it, all we have experienced of it, exists entirely in our minds. Minds, I point out, which have no concrete, material or mechanical existence. The thing that we have created, our entire concept of nature and physics, cannot account for or explain it, instead redirecting our attention to a complex molecular difference engine that we call the brain. That quintessential thing that we depend on for our very existence, our conscious awareness, is utterly inescapable yet being so central to everything we are we either take it for granted or dismiss it out of hand. Without question, it is the quality and nature of our minds that compell us to consider metaphysical aspects of existence, postulating the existence of souls and spiritual existence. Unfortunately, our predisposition toward the material compells us to conceive of the spiritual in contrast to the material, if it does not compell us to dismiss it entirely as superstition. 

In both cases, we are crippled by our determination to adhere to a school of established thought, eschewing any truly original or innovative thought on a matter which is, undoubtedly, of the greatest significance of all. In part, this is a pitfall of language. As many a tyrant has understood, our capacity for thought is intiately tied to the concepts which our language embraces, and the meaning--or at least our understanding of it--that can be derived from the expression of those concepts. 

John, you are correct about how our identification with a system of classification can become a fatal flaw. How often have men died for the sake of the ideas that they adhered to? How many of us have claimed that we are willing to die for our beliefs? How many of us have died simply because of our beliefs? Is it possible that anyone who has ever died, has in fact died simply because of their adherence to an idea? An idea about the nature of existence. An idea that most inherited as part of the language and culture they were born into, and which few--if any--have ever stopped to examine in detail?

Our confidence in our assumptions about reality is deadly, and to make it more perilous, the world we've built on that assumption denies most people the luxury of time to question those assumptions intelligently. We make a great deal out of our scientific knowledge, but in truth that is mostly statistical data. It is a catalog of experience that by design conforms to the assumptions we have about the nature of existence. 

The world we live in is a "manifestation" bounded on all sides by the "abstractions" of our minds. Isn't that obvious in the fact that the physical universe adheres to mathematical principle? Physical and spiritual truth are perceived as mutually exclusive, but they are each derived from the same foundation of conscious contemplation of observed phenomena--the manifest and the abstract. Rather than ask how these two systems might be reconciled, ask instead why we feel it necessary to employ two antagonistic systems of thought in order to account for our experiences and define our existence?


Right. My two prior posts amount to little more than a refresher. I acknowledge that I have not exactly said anything new, so the only thing unique to those posts is the sense of urgency in my phrasing. However, there is some point in the repetition, as perhaps you are now familiar enough with some of my ideas to perceive the underlying message. I have yet to truly answer the question posed in the initial thread, as I am still focused upon the obstacles which prevent any answer from being meaningful. To wit, our established perspective exludes the possability that has been posited--by definition. 

So, let me take a few steps back and begin with what prompted me to try to respond in the first place. First, the question was not new to me. I first became intrigued by the possaility of a psionics machine in junior high, when I developed an interest in artificial intelligence. I explored and mapped out methods of replicating cognitive processes mechanically, and soon stumbled upon the unanswered questions about the nature of consciousness and the existence of the soul. By creating a machine capible of cognitive thought and awareness, would I in fact be creating life? My interest in artificial intelligence waned as I discovered that the ideas I had were many generations ahead of technology. In truth, my analyses called in many cases for technology that did not exist in even the most primitive form. 

My interest shifted from an interest in trying to replicate the mind to understanding it better, a pursuit that has taken me through a succession of varied and often incompatible disciplines of thought. What struck me most was how, for all the incompatibilities and inconsistencies of various disciplines and belief systems, it was possible to glean an element of truth from all of them. In all cases, the fatal limitation of every system was language. I doubt I am alone in making that observation. The problem with actually learning something new is finding a way to incorporate it into the linguistic conceptual architecture, and--worse, one almost always glimpses but a fraction of a possability at first, so misconceptions are very common. This is one of the reasons why we have a billion facts and no grasp of the truth. 

(cont)

I honestly do not know what inspired the definition and classification of "psionic" abilities. Like most people, I've absorbed most of what I know from science fiction stories and movies. I don't know where people got the notion that such abilities might exist, even assuming that such abilities had ever been reliably documented. I don't know what prompted someone to assert that these things were not merely magical or miraculous in nature. What I do know is that it is significant for placing the power, the capability, within ourselves as opposed to an external agency, like God. 

Psionics is unique for making us focus our attention upon ourselves, upon the lynchpin of our existence. It compells us to think of ourselves as being significant, to think of our minds as being integral to the workings of the cosmos. It encourages us to pursue knowlege and understanding in the same context in which we actually exist. In that light, a psionics machine seems a redundant thing to strive for. However, in light of the position we've gotten ourselves into, it might take the invention of a psionics machine to convince us that there \b{is} something more to existence that we have been ignoring. 

To those who would seek to create a psionics machine, or employ existing technology in the "spirit" of such a pursuit, I advise taking some time to study the "psionics machine" that nature has provided for us as the template for our own psychic evolution. As I stated in my post on DeviantART, I always endeavor to encourage the beliefs of others, because belief itself is a key to freeing your mind. Neither belief, nor faith, alone will suffice, but if you possess either you are capible of thinking about these possabilities, and that is the essential first step. 


Psionics is a catch 22. If the mind is capible of influencing, altering or even dictating reality then the operative parameters of belief (or doubt) become a focal issue. The principle arguement against psionics and the paradigm underscoring science is that reality, the universe, exists independantly in an objective state. The true nature of this construct remains beyond the scope of science to determine, however. Observation and experience informs us that the construct can be altered, and in fact seems to be in a constant state of flux, but the mechanisms of change or transformation are all, consistent with the observed nature of the construct, physical in nature. The entire construct can be abstracted, translated into a mental context. Psionics seems to emerge as a tentative apprehension of mental manipulations of the internalized construct that might be derived if they could be translated back into a physical format. Today, as the technology to create virtual reality is evolving around us, it is not at all surprising that people are reconsidering their assumptions about the nature of reality. While there remains a sense that existence must encompass objective and subjective states, we've learned that reality is distinguished from dreams primarily through concensus. A dream, however real it may seem, is a singular experience, while reality is a group experience with continuity, which gives our lives the weight of significance and meaning. Between dreams and reality, there is another state of existance we've all experienced, story. Story can be experienced in a number of formats, and some can be more immersive than others. The basic and universal medium of Story is information. The most effective stories replicate experience in a sensual context--often even incorporating "senses" we do not possess. Story is the progenitor of virtual reality. It utilizes and stimulates our imagination, providing external memory and collective unconsciousness accessible to anyone who chooses to utilize it. Combined and expanded by art (visual and audible) Story is a mechanical, mental interface. 

The thing about Story is, it establishes a precident for "objective information" as well as a precident for "mental manipulation". Objective reality is dependant on two things, group participation and objective information. A group of individuals can collectively create "objective information" and "mental manipulation" while always an operational reality would be limited by concensual reinforcement. That is, if one person tried to change the story, the tendancy would be for the others to notice the inconsistency and attempt to restory the original information. Thus, "changing the world" would tend to be possible only through general trends (like generational drift), through a significant majority acting on common impulses, or through the influence of an extremely influential minority. This is already evident in sociocultural reality. The final limiter is one found in language, specifically that it is nearly impossible to communicate an idea that is not part of the conceptual framework of the common language. However true, signigicant or meaningful an idea may be, it is difficult for anyone to act on it without a way to think or talk about it. A poorly developed or improperly conceptualized idea is little better and often worse. A misconception can literally cripple a mind. An concept that can not bear the weight of intense scrutiny is generally a misconception or an outright lie, but, ironically, even the most abhorrent lie can still be based on the truth. In some cases, a lie is the only concept we have of certain truths. We call that a fiction.

At present, the only examples we have of psionics are fiction. The concepts of psionic abilties have been evolving rapidly in the last few generations, but the general concensus is that they are based on misconceptions. At the same time a large minority recognize that psionic concepts are useful and representative of significant unexamined truths. The concepts have given recent generations ways to think about things that other concepts have succeeded only in making more obscure. The pursuit of psionics is as fruitless and foolish as the pursuit of magic or miracles. Not because there is no such thing, but because it's the wrong approach. All three are concepts derived from an apprehension of our own potential, and they can only be realized by acheiving a better understanding of ourselves and the nature of our existence. 
