notes included in development 20100819

the ring of absolution

a scenario where the incarnations of morgan are sequential -- the boy born first and the girl looped back in time (via the rift) at seven. the mechanism of transformation is the ring of sex, turning the boy into the girl's twin. 


the peices of the paradox

the demon of the realm was captured in a ring through its human, earth-born host. the boy found the ring and was turned female before the ring was stolen from her. the girl recovered the ring and became male to help the boy break the curse and reverse their transformations. before the ring could be used to restore their normal forms, they were confronted by the ring's architect.

the ring was shattered in the fight with the wizard. the demon possessed the girl and destroyed the wizard, banishing his soul to the abyss. the possessed girl encountered the demon's former host on the edge of the abyss. while the boy was forced to obey the demon, the girl and the host worked to drive the demon out of the girl's body -- and the inner realm. 

the host attacked through the girl, but the demon was too intelligent to be attacked the same way twice. the demon possessed the boy, leaving the former host in possession of the girl's male body. to save the girl, however, the boy embraced the demon and released the girl's soul, leaving the girl in possession of his female body. 

the boy, more of a tomboy following her experiences as a girl, or a goddess after merging with the demon, found herself trapped in the girl's mind -- along with the demon's adversary. the god created by the fusion of the demonic assassin and the banished wizard had clawed his way out of the abyss to find himself in the girl's mind. 

it did not take the adversary long to realize that the girl was the future incarnation of the goddess the boy had become. to preserve his existence, the god had to ensure the goddess was reborn as the girl without revealing that the girl was her own mother, destined to die in an attack the god would have to engineer. 

first he would have to escape from her mind. the rival that had pursued the boy, mistaking "her" for the girl, provided the perfect means. it was easy to provoke the frustrated rival into not taking "no" for an answer, prompting a lethal response from the girl. the god slipped from the shadow of the girl's mind into the corpse and waited until it had been disposed of to resurrect the body and claim it for his own. 


the traumatic night 

the rift opened when the girl fought to keep her soul from being ripped out by a demonic assassin that survived the battle her mother died in while trying to protect her. the demonic assassin was ripped from its host and cast into the abyss within her mind by the part of her psyche that had formerly been the demon of the realm. the demonic assassin was embraced by the soul of a wizard that had been banished to the abyss by the demon of the realm. the girl fell through the rift she opened during her struggle with the demonic assassin -- oblivious of the god that had been created in the depths of her unconsciousness. 


	an initiate's training includes intimacy, explored as an extension of athletics, specifically gymnastics and dance. 
	this comprehensive form of sex education is considered essential for healthy development, involving practice as well as theory. 
	the time when ninth year initiates pair up was euphemistically known as "mating season". 

	the girl was discovered as an orphan on the street. 

	the girl's perfect resemblance to the goddess marks her as a potential heir to the phoenix house. 

	the girl's appearance also leads the boy's family to believe she is the bastard daughter of his mother's cousin. 
	his mother's cousin died in a battle shortly after the girl would have been conceived. 

	the girl was made a ward of the boy's mother and betrothed to the boy to resolve a question of title and inheritance. 
	the family assumed the boy and girl would become intimately attached and embrace the prospect of marriage as a consequence of growing up together. 

	in spite of being accepted into the boy's family, the girl remained curious about her past.
	the girl grew up plagued by nightmares and determined to avenge her mother, but unable to remember precisely what had happened. 
	no one had been able to find out who her mother had been; it seemed as if her mother had never existed. 
	her mother's anonymity prompted some to believe she had been a courtesan in the underworld. 

	the connections the girl made among the street orphans managed to keep her tied to the underworld throughout her childhood. 
	
	the boy's rival at the academy becomes interested in the girl. 
	the rival takes a deeper interest in her based in part on his rivalry with the boy. 

	the girl had agreed to help a boy catch another girl he is obsessed with. 
	the girl accomplishes that goal only to attract an unwanted admirer. 
	the rival is an adventurer and son of a local lord with an interest in exploring the underworld. 
	the rival pursues the girl after learning of her childhood misadventure in the ruins and the underworld. 
	

	in the ninth year of initiation, the girl and the boy are paired up to master the arts of dancing and become intimate. 

	the adversary finally breaks through to the girl's subconscious. 

	the girl inherits her "father's" property and her first visit stirs up traumatic nightmares and crippling flashbacks. 
	the adversary takes advantage of her trauma to assert itself. 
	the visions force the girl to begin a serious investigation of the massacre. 

	the investigation leads the girl and her friends into the underworld and dangerous association with its criminal and immortal elements. 

	the girl begins to lose time during her forrays into and under the streets of avon. 
	the angel is surfacing to strike down threats drawn to her in response to its presence. 

	the girl encounters old acquaintances in the underworld and confronts new threats and challenges to her investigation. 
	the investigation ends up leading her into conflict with the underworld's immortals.
	the girl unwittingly stumbled into a plot designed by the cabal of northern exiles and the adversary. 

	
	the boy's resemblance to the girl, as a girl, is attributed to the selective breeding practiced by their house -- to preserve the image of the goddess. 

	the boy was naturally hesitant to complete the ordeal of the ring's curse, until the ring was stolen. 

	a friend confronts him with certain facts and confides that being born and raised a boy is no obstacle to being a girl. 

	other events contribute to the girl's decision to use the ring, but her main reason is to share the ordeal with the boy and break the curse together. 

	the girl's transformation into the boy's twin confronts them once more with the oddity of their resemblance, but their attention is drawn to more immediate concerns. 

	during the boy's ordeal as a girl, he gets caught up in an affair with his former rival. 

	while posing as the girl, the boy unwittingly becomes involved in a plot to assassinate his rival. 

	rumors about the girl, combined with the odd circumstances of his involvement with the rival, make certain members of the underworld suspicious. 

	the assassin tasked to take the rival out believes "she" has the same contract. 

	the boy is just trying to distract the rival from the girl, while she is engaged in her pursuit of answers. 

	the boy is half-tempted to take advantage of his rival's interest, to do what he must to regain his manhood. 

	unfortunately, the boy has a hard time working up the nerve to go through with it. 

in a variation on other threads where the ring is shattered, this approach allows the demon to take possession of the girl while she is in male form. while she encounters the demon's former host in the shadow of possession, and joins forces with him fighting the demon from within, the demon encounters the boy, who is still in female form. 

when the former host strikes through the girl's psyche, it forces the demon to possess the boy's female body. continuing to fight, the boy instinctively embraces the demon to save the girl's soul and ends up leaving her in possession of his female body--with the boy (possessing the demon) trapped in her mind. she also discovers that the demon's former host has taken possession of her body. 

the host takes on the boy's identity and the girl remains haunted by the boy while they search for a solution to their situation. the host, formerly a native of earth, has different ideas about how to resolve the problem, focusing on the pursuit of demons for reasons having as much to do with what he experienced as a demonic host as the need to restore the boy to his former self. 
 
in the end, the boy reincarnates himself parthenogenically -- as the girl, who is displaced in time through a rift when she is seven. 

it is between her birth and displacement that the older version of her endures the trials of a dual initiation at the hands of a vampire and were-tiger that result in the younger version of her believing that her mother died, making her an orphan. the troubles in the underworld originate in a plot to raise an army of demons and the undead and comes to a climax the night of the rift storm. 


an angel's fall

a point to begin with is the demon's creation -- the events of an angel's fall. on the original aeirn, an angel fell in love with an avon. the avon was slain and the angel, unable to accept her death, clung to and unintentionally took possession of her soul, severing itself from the soul of its creator. as a result, the demon confronted two problems: her soul had become the focus of the demon's existence and her mind was exiled to the unconscious depths of the demon's mind. her survival depended on the demon's survival and its existence now depended on the possession of her soul -- until it could find a soul of its own. 

angels fall and become demons, spirits that impose themselves on the souls they prey on. most souls rebel against the identity forced upon them, so most demons are tormented souls, filled with pain and self-loathing, striking out at others like a wounded animal and driven in search of the soul that will bring them peace. 

the demon began to collect souls, searching for the one that could possess it -- a perfect melding of mind and soul. the demon's originial hope of ressurecting the avon died when her body was destroyed and the demon was forced to claim a new host. the demon watched with curiosity as dragons shared the discovery of humans on earth with the people of aeirn. the demon fought in the defence of life and in support of the realization of creation against demons who preyed on the living or angels who viewed physical life as a threat to spiritual existence. the demon witnessed the destruction of aeirn, surviving the cataclysm and retreating to earth in a human host with a handful of other survivors. 

the demon remained unaware of the recreation of aeirn, dreamed back into existence by its captive souls, until some of them found a way to draw the demon into the world within it through the soul of its living host. the demon fell into a cunning trap and remained imprisoned for a brief period, but when it finally escaped the demon became attracted to an individual who almost perfectly embodied the traits of the avon it still loved -- and did not know had been destroyed in a previous plot to conquer the demon. 


the demon at large

the girl recovered the ring from the person it was sold to by the theif. she confronts the boy with a proposal, to use the ring herself and break its curse together. after the girl is turned into a boy by the ring, she is confronted by a powerful being that had been searching for the ring since its creation. a battle ensues and the girl is possessed by the demon when the ring is shattered during the fight. the demon defeats the attacker and is confronted by the boy. the demon is attracted by the boy's resemblance to the goddess (in female form). the demon probes the boy's mind, probing "her" memories and confirming that "she" is not the person she appears to be. 

while confronting the boy, the demon becomes aware of the boy's transformation into a twin of the girl, and her transformation into a twin of the boy. the demon is both fascinated and disturbed by the secret buried in the boy's mind, an unconscious struggle between his love for the girl and a denied longing to be her. the demon offers to finish what the girl started, to allow the boy to reclaim his former identity. the boy declines the offer, in spite of the demon declaring that made him equally guilty of stealing the girl's life. the demon adopts the boy's identity, forcing the boy to continue posing as the girl. 

the demon ignores the boy's pleas, curses and threats over its possession of the girl until "her" behavior brings unwanted attention to it. the animosity between them threatened "their" engagement. to perserve the status quo, the demon is forced to confide, explaining the danger of the situation. the demon understood the implications of the trap it fell into and expected the architects of that trap to use any means to conquer it. everyone around the demon was in danger if the gods conspiring against it discovered the identity it had assumed. the demon spent much of its time learning the history of the world that had formed inside it; eventually learning about the destruction of the goddess. 

the boy struggled to calm the demon out of its grief-stricken rage, prompting the demon to confide the story of its fall. the demon begins by asserting that it knew what it was like to take the place of the person one loved. the demon wonders aloud if it, like the boy, had possessed an unconscious desire to be the person it had loved so passionately. it wondered if that meant her soul was the soul it had needed to become an independent being, and it had failed to embrace that soul properly. the boy wondered if the demon had ever given a soul the chance to embrace it, or if by taking possession the demon forced every soul to fight it. 

the boy denies wanting to be the girl, but the demon disagrees. the demon says he might reject the idea of taking her place from her, but asserts that the boy had always wished, deep down, that he was her. that was why, since his transformation, it had been so easy for the boy to be her. the demon points out that, unless the boy accepted the demon's offer to return to his former self, he was her. it suspected that if the boy did give in, he would not want to stop being her. when the boy continued to object, the demon promised to prove it, even if it had to rape "her" and force the boy to reclaim his identity. 




recapturing threads

the demon within - amplified -- an approach in which the demon fell on the original aeirn, survived the fall of the gods and the destruction of the original aeirn, and migrated to earth can support a new premise. 

a man from earth who was possessed by the demon became involved in a plot to conquer the demon. the architects of the plot sought to use the man -- the demon's living host -- to capture the demon and harness its power. the man was led to believe the conspirators were trying to help him regain possession of his body and return to his life on earth. instead his soul was used to bind the demon within an enchanted ring. to complete the binding, the conspirators had to destroy the man before he could master the power of the ring. the man fought and the ring was lost when the man used the greed of the conspirators against them. this ring eventually makes its way into the boy's hands.

the demon within - amplified - in the shadow of possession -- a slight adjustment for the new premise, when the ring is shattered and the demon takes possession of the girl's body in male form, the souls of the host and the girl awake in the shadow of possession. 

the host, having made the transition through the depths of the demon's mind, is able to lead the girl back to the threshold of reality. there, they confront the gods -- other eclipsed souls. as the new living host, the girl is the key to defending the realm from the embodied demon's absolute power. the plan is to attack the demon through her, the way it was attacked through its former host. the attack is led by the former host, using a modified binding to conquer the demon. 

in the shadow of possession -- sub-threads

	once eclipsed by the demon, the girl found herself in limbo, lost in a nightmare wasteland that was a pale reflection of reality. 
	the demon's realm was an endless and incredibly lucid dream -- an eternal prison. 
	the first person the girl encounters is the soul of the demon's former host. 
	the former host is drawn to her and takes her under his wing. 
	he is the one who explains to her what has happened, where she is and what it means. 
	it takes an eternity to navigate the wasteland nightmare that enveloped the world within. 

	the host distracts her from the nightmare, and keeps her focused, with a string of revelations. 
	to him, her world was a kind of afterlife. 
	the depths of the demon's mind was where the souls it collected were imprisoned.
	it was also where the nightmare they shared had evolved and solidified into a mortal realm. 
	the seed souls initially entered a kind of wasteland, a chaotic, shifting amorphea polarized by the surreal and the ideal. 
	
	their thoughts and feelings created the world they existed in, an unending dream that was difficult to control because it was shared. 
	in time, they learned how to manipulate their reality
	that reality became stable through the influence of their offspring, replicating the pattern of their host realm 
	the captive souls had evolved into the gods of the inner realm. 
	
		the inner gods took an active role in creating a haven for humanity, bringing the world of aeirn to life. 
		as in the outer realm, the physical processes of life imposed its natural order and eventually ended the age of creation. 
		the intimate participation of the inner gods continued though the first age of magic, a period of enlightenment that became tainted by ambition. 
		the ambitious gods were turned against each other by the belief that their power derived from a single source and was diminished by division.

	in the wasteland, time had no meaning, but once they approach the threshold of the realm, things pick up. 
	she is introduced to other eclipsed souls, the lost souls...
	instead of thinking of himself as a god, he and many others thought of themselves as exiles. 
	she learns they had all turned their back on the lure of becoming gods of the inner realm seeking a way back to the outer realm.

	where she came from, she was just a girl; here she could be a goddess.
	the host warns her that the inner gods would attempt to pull her into their ranks -- and intrigues. 
	she was in immediate danger because the demon was only vulnerable to attack through her. 
	many of the inner gods still sought absolute power in the realm through conquest of the demon. 
	while the demon possessed her, body and soul, each provided a direct link to the demon -- the true god of the realm. 

	desperate to exploit the opportunity she represented, the power-hungry blocked her access to the inner realm. 
	her body offered a direct, physical avenue of attack. 
	her soul -- or more accurately, her mind -- offered an easier, indirect avenue of attack. 
	tormenting her was an indirect way to torment and provoke the demon. 
	under this type of abuse, her exile was promising to become a form of hell. 

	her mentor had the knowledge and skill to restore the status quo by helping her reclaim her body and unseating the demon from her native realm. 
	he had been the victim of a plot to conquer the demon -- the second that he knew of.
	the original plot had been carried out against the demon's focus -- the soul claimed at the demon's original fall.

	the demon within - amplified - eve of paradox -- sub-threads

		the plot to draw the demon down where it could be confronted was engineered by one of the inner gods and an alliance of lost souls. 
		the objective was to summon the demon of the realm, conquer it and claim its dominion. 
		once in possession of a body within the domain, the demon would be vulnerable to attack by those who conspired to bring it down.
		the members of the cabal cooporated to create a situation to their advantage and then competed to exploit it. 

		the supporters of the conspiracy became adversaries.
		each seeking to dominate and devour the demon in the hopes of becoming the soul of creation
		each needing the help of others to make the demon vulnerable to such an assault. 
		this contest evolved into a war among the gods known as the purge. 

	the demon within - eve of paradox -- sub-threads

		the architects of the purge eventually identified the demon's focus and confronted her. 
		the problem was that none of them knew how this would affect them or the world they were in. 
			... her personal demon survived the anihilation of both souls by taking possession of one of the touched. 
		in the aftermath of the purge the unstable alliance of opportunistic rivals changed tactics.
		
	an inner god who had been a demonologist in the outer realm had conceived of a plan to attack the demon through its host. 
	the demonologist claimed that the attack would force the demon to turn its attention inward, allowing the man to regain possession of his body. 
	as soon as the demon entered the body he had manifested in its realm, it could be banished -- its link to him destroyed in the process. 

	in theory, the plot could be turned to her advantage, instead of drawing the demon down into the realm, draw it up to the edge of the abyss. 
	by provoking it from there, he believed he could force it to exchange places with her. 
	after the girl was restored, he would lure it into the abyss, in a race to regain possession of the body he had on earth.

a dual infection - the were half -- the girl and her mother were envisioned as something akin to witches -- in the oldest inspiration, natural psychics identified as aeirnthanes. due to an accident when the girl was magically transformed into a tiger, she was branded with that ability. years later, she fought a were-tiger in tiger form and ended up infected with a more controllable version of the were-tiger curse.
 
a rift storm - a trap -- the architect of the trap was either a rogue master at the academy, or an adversary who captured the girl to bait the trap. a number of threads could be adapted to resolve this point. 

aeirn - destroyed and recreated -- in the inner realm, a recreation of aeirn resolved around the souls eclipsed by the demon in its search for a soul of its own. the inner realm was initially a cold and lifeless reflection of the outer realm, a foundation upon which the captive souls could dream up worlds of their own. to escape isolation, they had to seek each other out in limbo or learn to share their dreams. 

