t 20070825

Upon reflection, previous inspirations lend themselves best to the exile becoming the girl's mother and the protege being eclipsed and becoming a god. In the moment when the protege sires the boy, the phoenix takes possession and the protoge's body turns female to accomodate her remaining potential, and the spell concludes with the conception of the girl. The exile ends up taking possession at that point, resurrected as the girl's mother. 

In the adjusted impulse, before the protege's attempt to sire an incarnation of the god is usurped by the exile's bid for resurrection, when the protege completes the incarnation of the boy and the protege is eclipsed, the phoenix claims his body and becomes female to complete the spell with the incarnation of a girl. Then the exile takes possession of the protege's body from the phoenix and becomes the girl's mother. Thus, the boy has the protege for a father and the girl has the exile for a mother. 

In this way, the exile resurfaces as a goddess, prompting the protege's ascension as a god. Appearing out of nowhere, she is forced to establish herself either through marriage or patronage. The exile acted blindly to seize the opportunity to escape the abyss, and naturally assumes that her daughter is, as intended, a reincarnation of her host. Presumably, the exile's host was a courtesan since she was mistaken for a courtesan at every turn. 

The exile's background remains the same, born an assassin, touched and by experimenting with the connection eventually ascending to godhood. For the sake of the displaced host, the exile intended to give her daughter the choice to be a courtesan once more, or to become more. The girl's misadventures give the exile the impression that the girl could be more -- a talented assassin, spy or theif, and encouraged her in these areas, having established herself as a spy. 

The protege had two options, having been born with the mark of the touched, in choosing a mother for the boy. Any courtesan would have willingly accepted him as a stud, and the boy would certainly be yeilded to him for his training and education. Alternatively, he could have married and recognized the boy legitimately as his son. He chose a courtesan, a woman with two daughters it turned out, giving the boy the same sort of life he had known. 

The boy, even as the illegitimate son of the protege, has all of the opportunity he needs to become the girl's equal and to become what he needs to be. The protege would naturally follow up and conclude that whatever happened to him, the experiment itself was a success and either the boy was an incarnation of the soul of creation or a reincarnation of himself. As far as he knows, he was simply overwhelmed by the magic and driven temporarily out of his senses. 

Moreso than in the initial approach, the circumstances tend to obscure any connection between the boy and girl, and the events of the night of eclipse would be structured to help ensure that. The protege is displaced, the exile slips away in the shadows and the courtesan was not sure of what she witnessed in that brief moment. It would take her years to speak of what she experienced, having doubted herself until confronted by the boy's transformation. 

The protege, as an initiate, studied transformation and mastered the ability to change sex, among many other things, and thus the phoenix simply called upon and adopted an ability and knowledge he possessed to acheive her transformation. It was an instinctive action prompted by the spell she was snared in and each incarnation inherited it as a natural ability. On discovering the ability, both children found it disturbing and dismissed it.

