t 20081011

:: eclipsed ::

This would be a viable approach to establishing the protagonist as the soul of creation, though some elements would have to be updated. 

When the protege was raped by the demon, the attempt to conceive a human incarnation of the soul of creation was merely interrupted. When he turned female and became able to bear a child, it continued. 

The demon initially showed little interest in it's presumed offspring, but when the child was seven, it decided to make its claim. Still in possession of the protege's lover, the demon was not yet aware that its hold over the soul of creation was slipping. As the mind of creation, the demon remained in power over the domain; but the source of that power, the focus of the realm, was gaining a mind of its own in the child. When the demon confronted the child, it realized this and attempted to reassert its possession. 

The child managed to eclipse the demon, freeing the possessed lover and the child's presumed genetic father. The protege's former lover was stunned to discover the ability she was left with as the other half of the original familiar bond, but firmly asserts her paternal rights to the child. She established herself as a man by posing as her own husband and presented the child as "their" son. 

As a girl, the child remained the daughter of the protege, in the identity she had established for herself separate from her identity as a man. The child's betrothal to her alter ego was conceived of by her "father" who believed that it was the only way to protect the truth of their duality -- and also that a person who was ambisexual was homosexual by default and should thus remain celibate.  

The protege, the child and the protege's former lover were all able to change sex at will, but as the child's parents, typically maintained the sex and roles of mother and father respectively, maintaining their original identities separately and appearing in those roles only as strangers to the child. The father, in either sex, treated the girl as his son's fiance. 

