t 20081110


a girl possessed and eclipsed by a demon : this is the premise of the demon within thread in its mature form, the initial climax in the girl's story. 

...crosses the threshold : this element is new to the story, but has been developed in several forms, each suitable for the main story line. The ordeal she goes through here is potentially a book in its own right. It can easily be developed as a sequel, however. 

...confronts a boy bitten by the demon and turned into her twin : the problem here is that this is essentially the establishing event in the origin of a person who is divided into male and female incarnations; in order for this boy to be the girl's counterpart, something of this nature has to have already occurred. 

...helps the boy cope with being a girl : this was an original main thread -- a boy-turned-girl -- and can be adapted to resolve a childhood division. 

a boy-turned-girl : this thread has evolved as the complement of the demon within thread, exploring the boy's ordeal of gradually assimilating his female counterpart. 

...is raped by the demon : this is the crisis point of the conflict and the opening part of the climax of the demon within thread. As a singular duality origin, this rape would result in the conception of the main character. A conception under the present circumstances would be parthenogenic. 

...slays the demon : this is the turning point and escalation of the climax employing one of the oldest inspirations, the slain twin. When the boy-turned-girl slew the demon, its body automatically reverted to its original female form in a desperate attempt to repair itself but the demon was still impaled. 

...is possessed and eclipsed by the demon : this is the revealed mechanism of the slain twin thread. As its host body died, the demon took possession of the only other body available, leaving the girl's corpse to be discovered. 

...crosses the threshold : this is a potential duplication of a girl possessed and eclipsed by a demon. There is a relatively simple fix that resolves two problems. The original demon within thread involved a struggle for dominance, so the girl's possession was intermittent and the boy's transformation gave the demon a way to edge her out and force him to assimilate her. 

Her assimilation leaves the demon in possession of her body, until her body is slain and the demon takes possession of his body. Another benefit is that the demon within and the demon of the realm are separate entities. This demon would have originated in the mind of an eclipsed soul of the aegis and most likely would have fallen during the purge or the age of ruin. The world within this demon is still taking shape, inspired by the dreams and memories of souls native to both aeirn and the aegis. 


:: follow up :: 

An alternate origin and division of the male and female incarnations of the main character is required. Their conception and division could be a result of the fusion and division of their parents -- a magical experiment gone awry. Another method -- revising the childhood trauma -- for establishing the demon within thread is also required. A solution to both problems may already be among the options previously explored. 


:: stray threads ::

a demon impregnated : this thread could work as a catalyst for the transformation or assimilation of the demon, which was unaware that the body it claimed had been impregnated in the initial rape. On attempting to shift that body into its male form, the embryo was absorbed. Instead of assuming the boy's form, or reverting to the girl's form, the body took on a fusion of their forms, a sexless and androgynous expression of their potential. 

...transforms and is embraced by the soul of its child
...is transformed into a god



