t 20080922

eve of paradox revision notes

Two individuals, born in separate realities, cross the threshold between fact and fiction to confront a threat to both worlds, and glimpse the truth behind existence itself.

Chapter - 1 2 3 4 5 6 7

This project combines fantasy and science fiction to explore the nature of its protagonists and that of their native worlds. In worlds where the boundaries between magic and technology merge, and mere human beings have harnessed that power, it is the human question that comes to the fore, and the human psyche that waits to be explored.

Over the years, I have tried to develop a pool of ideas into book form. Typically, these manuscripts are pushed aside incomplete as other demands are made on my time and when I am able to return to them I find myself unable to pick up the thread where I left off. I thought it would be interesting to present one of these here as a rough example of my work. There are some mature themes, so take that under advisement. If you are not mature enough to deal with adult content, be mature enough not to read it. Originally published on FictionPress.com under the pen name avmorgan.

A little interest in posted roughs prompted me to consider resuming work on this story. The exploration of gender issues can remain a part of the plot, though it is one of the elements that needs to be revised to incorporate later developments. 




Because the eve of paradox was set on Aeirn, it is possible to incorporate the following ideas and elements. 

The founder of the third age of magic introduced a new model of existence based on his exploration of knowledge gained as a result of growing up among a communty of demigods, children of the gods of the first age of magic. 

A recent protege of the founder realized the implications of his mentor's teaching and attempted to embody the soul of creation. 

Rift Option: The attempt to conceive an embodiment of the soul of creation resulted in the conception of a male incarnation of the soul of creation and prompted it to eclipse him and change sex to conceive of a complementary female incarnation. This awakening opened the rift, though most assumed that the rift was a consequence  of magical combat in a key battle of the war. Being eclipsed by the soul of creation was the protege's apotheosis and allowed him to intervene and stabilize the rift. 

Threshold Option: One approach allowing the protagonist to be the soul of creation by starting out as the host of a demon ties into the the Threshold. The demon exploited the technology of the outer realm to tap souls via the Net. 


The body theft: In a singular duality thread, the demon exploits a moment of intimacy to take possession of one incarnation of the protagonist -- which it used to seduce a player and escape back across the threshold in a body swap.  


::eclipsed:: 

The demon: Originally an angel of the soul of creation of the first domain, an aspect of the phoenix. It fell as a result of seeking the personification of the soul of creation; it claimed the soul of an individual embraced by the soul of creation as an embodiment of the qualities and characteristics the soul of creation unconsciously identified with. As a result of claiming the person the soul of creation idealized, the angel divorced itself and fell, becoming a demon. 

The goddess: Ironically, the only accessible place where the soul it sought could manifest in a vulnerable state was within the demon's own shadow -- a realm focused around the soul of its host. The demon's host, the goddess, watched for the birth of a human incarnation of the soul of creation, waiting to prepare him or her to face the demon within. 


Conflicts and Complications

In previous attempts to establish a character divided into male and female incarnations, the complexity of most approaches made for untenable stories. In spite of the strong impulse to establish the protagonist as boy and girl in the same frame, as a means of realizing the full potential of a human being, the point is to tell a story of self-possession. It needs to be a story about a person who defines herself, and that involves making a choice uninfluenced by predisposition. The point of having a male and female incarnation of the protagonist is to present a balanced choice. 

In the original form, the story featured a version of the soul of creation but it was incompatible with many essential elements of that theme. One of the problems the original project hung up on was the idea of the soul of creation because it made the main character too extraordinary and conflicted with the "two individuals born in separate realities" theme. In being the soul of creation, the main character does not have a humble origin at all. 

Other ways have been found to introduce a character divided into male and female incarnations without originating as the soul of creation. 

In the course of development, the duality and division of the protagonist has been explored in many ways. To establish the protagonist as a boy and a girl, the protagonist could be conceived and even born as the child of a familiar, or gain the ability to change sex as a result of becoming a familiar and somehow becoming divided. 

This can be used to establish the protagonist as boy and girl at the same time, using the demon within as a catalyst. It begins with an attempt to embody the soul of creation. The demon senses the attempt and intervenes, taking possession of the woman through the man making the attempt. The possessed woman bites the man, making him the demon's familiar with the ability to transform into the woman. The demon acquires the man's form and rapes his familiar, and the protagonist is conceived. In a later pursuit of the familiar, the demon discovers the child and probes to see if it can claim the child's soul as its own. The attempt to possess the child frees the demon's host, allowing her to help the child escape possession by binding the demon within her. 

:: eclipsed :: 

One solution involved a staggered conception of two separate incarnations of the protagonist in the same frame -- one male, one female. 

The idea that the protagonist is split because the protege already possessed the ability to become female brought the project to a halt. As originally expressed, when the protege conceives the boy and is eclipsed, the phoenix who uses his magic to become female. This shifts a key story arc from the protagonist to a supporting character. 

In one version, the exile possesses her and conceives the girl, assuming that he has eclipsed one of the touched and reincarnating her in exchange for stealing her body. The exile, formerly a god, is thus resurrected as a goddess, while the eclipsed protege resurfaces as a god. 

:: resolved ::

The division of the child into male and female incarnations couls have been done intentionally; it is a rational thing for a parent to do to protect the child. As a child, the ability was easily concealed by clothing, but at the time of testing that ability would be discovered. 

Rather than force the child to choose a sex, division would allow the child to grow up as a boy and a girl. That creates as many complications as it resolves, however.  


  