t 20081104


:: hybrid option:: 

She was a companion who was mortally wounded after being infected by a were tiger. Her master attempted to turn her, believing that vampirism would quicken faster than the were infection in a victim so close to death. The idea here is to reclaim and recover the threads of Hunger and Thirst. 


:: unexplored options ::

Initially, the protagonist was Avonlea, the daughter of a were-tiger. In the effort to incorporate a male counterpart, it became difficult to retain this original thread. Along the way, other hybrid options were explored, including a were-vampire hybrid in which her father was a vampire. Somehow, even when the idea of a sex-changing variation of the were infection emerged, the idea of a transsexual were-tiger hybrid was overlooked. Before the opportunity is passed up, this is an option that should be explored. 

In the original approach, Avonlea's mother had run away from home and joined a circus troop. This could be a response to becoming a were-tiger, and can be expanded to include elements of the character that inspired Avonlea, a mage who could polymorph into a tiger. In that form, she encountered and fought a were-tiger; the resulting were infection combined with the polymorphic spell to give her a more controllable version of the curse. A circus is also a good place to find an ambisex, a man who turned into a female version of himself because of the bite of a demon-possessed woman. 

In the hybrid approach, the child's mother and father met as teenaged girls, shortly after their lives were disrupted by their infections. She had fled being forced into the clan of the tiger that infected her and he had fled from prosecution for murders the demon had committed in his form. Thrown together by fate, they helped each other adapt to their new lives, one teaching the other how to be a girl in exchange for learning how to fence and fight. Their friendship became intimate, and they became part of the troop's inner circle of professional rogues. It did not occur to them that they might be a fertile couple. 

The child's mother could not openly identify the father, though the troop leader knew and the members of the inner circle guessed when the child inherited his abilities and they manifested at birth. Officially a girl, clothing was enough to conceal the androgynous child's ability to be male or female. Her ability to become a tiger took a little longer to manifest. 


:: a tiger-familiar variant :: 

An option adapted from the proposal of a human mother and a tiger father, originally a witch and her familiar who were both infected by a were-tiger. If, instead, the tiger is the animal host of the demon, the familiar bond bridges a difference in species and sex. The initial transformation is a change in species and sex for both, though later they can change sex or species independently.    


:: hunger and thirst :: 

In spite of being immune to the individual effects, the boy and girl were essentially human, and vulnerable to the combined effects of vampire and were bites. During the girl's quest to rescue her lover, she fell prey to a vampire and a ware, infected by both. 

She ended up being infected as a result of a contest between a vampire and a were-tiger. Each was intent on laying claim to her by being the first to seduce her. The tiger was the first to bite Ash, infecting her and causing her to fight and take flight -- right into the vampire's arms. Her bleeding caused him to lose control, taking her as he would a vampire lover, draining her and letting her drink of him.  

Her turning was a terrible ordeal that left her a prisoner in her own body until she was exposed to enough light to become a were vampire. She also has to come to grips with the darker impulses she inherited from the demon. Thus, she endures the hunger and thirst that is also transferred to a demon's familiars. Unfortunately, she could not bear what her new nature demanded of her and attempted to take her own life by facing the dawn. 

Following the destruction of her body, she was drawn into the shadow of the demon where her other half was eclipsed. Working together, or rather as one, they were able to drive the demon out of his body which was still capable of accomodating them both. The boy had adapted to being a girl with the help of his other half, but in the process, the division between their psyches began to come undone. Combining against the demon unraveled it further. 

By this point, the phoenix had become involved in the prelude to a war. Demons stalked her, agents of the lost souls determined to rouse the demon in a bit to return to the outer realm. To the lost souls, demons of the inner realm were just weapons of their war, and one of the phoenix's companions sought to remove them from play. 
