t 20080718


It is also possible to make some additional adjustments to incorporate some deeper threads from the Demon Within, the Veil and the Abyss: As a child she destroyed a demon that was trying to possess her. In effect, she released the soul of the demon's host and asserted the dominance of her psyche, isolating the spirit instead of fully assimilating it and thus transforming it into her angel. The angel manifests as her compliment. 


Demon within option: As a child she was possessed by the demon and bit a young man (later to become her mentor) and the infection turned him into her demon's familiar and caused them both to become ambisexual. In this approach, she would grow up part of the time as a girl and part of the time as a boy -- until her two halves are separated. 

Her possession occurs at an age when she is innocent to sex, and having been a tomboy, the ability to become male simply allows her to embody a side of herself that she had already embraced androgynously. Initially, her transformations are simply cosmetic, allowing her to grow as a boy and a girl through experience. Only at puberty does her duality begin to confound her. 

The first ordeal for her to overcome is her possession, which she accomplished with the help of her demon's familiar. The demon's weakness was its desire for a soul of its own, an objective that could not be acheived simply by possessing someone. The demon believed that it needed to assimilate its host, when in truth the host had to assimlate the demon into his or her psyche. 

The demon's familiar was an initiate who was commanded to help the demon assimilate its host. The initiate soon discovered that he could use the demon's ambition to trap it in the girl's psyche. The initiate warded the girl to allow her psyche to eclipse the demon, and while this bound and imprisoned the demon, it did not prevent the girl from potentially assimilating the demon within her.

As a girl, she was Dawn, and as a boy, he was Dusk. Later, she picks up the alias, Ember, from the assassin, Ash. The separation of Dusk and Dawn into male and female incarnations lead to intimate exploration they had previously been denied when they were two sides of the same person, who was unwilling to become intimate with any normal boy or girl. 

This approach delays the release of the demon's previous host. The demon could not exist without a host, though it could eclipse many souls at once. After being divided into Dusk and Dawn, it is possible for one of them to surrender his or her body to the demon's previous host, freeing -- in this case, his -- soul, but only by assimilating the demon. 

Dusk surrenders his body to the demon's former host, and through Dusk, Dawn assimilates the demon. From this point on, she is technically a goddess, but it will take many ordeals for her to grasp the powers she inherits from the demon. The ordeal of the wager triggers her discovery of powers a demon could transfer to its familars to create vampires and weres. 

Dawn also has to come to grips with the darker impulses she inherits from the demon. Thus, she endures the hunger and thirst that is also transferred to a demon's familiars. 

