


The Age of Empires <from Flesh & Blood>

The end of the world was coming. It had been foreseen as early as the Age of Gods, when attempts to make it come to pass resulted in the end of the Age of Gods. Following the cataclysm some had believed to have been a narrow escape from the ultimate end, the handful of gods who remained in the Age of Man could see that the end of the world was still coming, growing nearer every generation. Some gods worked to ensure the apocalypse, teaching magic to mortals. The art of conjury was the foundation of the first age of magic. Ironically, conjury granted mortals power over the gods, revealing and exploiting the angelic and demonic natures of the gods. Fortunately, this brought things into balance until the dawn of the second age of magic. Mortals, working to preserve the world and mankind by studying and understanding existence introduced magery. The art of magery helped mortals become independent of the gods and the cost of divine intervention and the second age of magic saw the general withdrawal of the gods and weakening of pagan religions. Due to the predominance of clerical mages, magic remained strongly associated with religion. 

Not surprisingly, the second age of magic introduced monotheism, aided by the division of the ancient gods into angels and demons. Creation itself was commonly considered the only incarnation of the One True God necessary, as no singular personification could be majestic enough for the Creator. Not that this prevented the anthropomorphism of God. In addition, many worshippers of the old gods declared their deities to have been agents of the One God, directing their worship through them. This assisted the transition to and evolution of magery, which was used to arm the human champion of God against the conjury of infidels. To distance the power of the church from the power of magic, to ensure that the power of the church could not fall into the hands of a single, ambitious individual, the foot-soldiers of the church were mere monks. In time, the public practice and exercise of magery became restricted to the suppression of conjury almost exclusively. Thus, magic became very uncommon and most mortals were forced to make do with more mundane resources and resourcefulness. At least, until the dawn of the third age of magic. 

By their nature, the gods and their direct issue remained as much a part of the world as ever, gathering into communities as changes in the world freed them from obligations to various populations. Not surprisingly, the retreats of the gods were difficult places for mortals to reach, and yet it happened that one mortal child became shipwrecked upon the shore of one such island retreat. This orphan was allowed to live and grow among the gods, but the gods underestimated the child’s curiosity and intelligence. Aided by the archives the gods had assembled to preserve the lore and wisdom of each age, he was able to devise a new art, one which could be passed on to the common man. By virtue of his mastery of the art he created, he was able to take the art of sorcery to the world at large, teaching magic divorced from divinity to those with the determination and devotion to learn. Because the art he created was founded on the cultivation of personal integrity, it appealed strongly to the independent minded. It also had a built in limiting factor, a sorcerer’s power was limited by the depth of his devotion, his own sense of responsibility. 

Ironically, while the Sorcerer was inspired to bring his magic to the world by his own perception of the end of the world, his action helped bring the apocalypse that much closer. On a general level, any profound conflict between the servants of the three arts could not help but place unbearable strain upon the world. The results of waging war with conjury, magery and sorcery could be cataclysmic. Of additional, and possibly greater danger, was the possibility of even two individuals merging conjury and magery with sorcery. But, that was a danger so specific as to be impossible to detect in advance. 

