i angels-demons

angels and demons, conceived in mortal minds, have immortal spirits, physical plasticity and strive for psychic indepencence through the acquisition of their own souls

girls and boys, conceived in mortal bodies, have immortal souls, spiritual plasticity and strive for psychic independence through the acquisition of their own minds

Demonic Origins

The circumstances of a demon's creation vary depending on its origin. A demon created from an angel breaks away from its creator by taking possession of a host soul, as opposed to a fallen angel that becomes self possessed--a process not unlike that of a human coming into his or her own soul. A demon that is cast out, as usually precipates an angel's fall to a demonic state, will often be forced to take possession of an animal soul and then acquire human form through the communicative infection of familiarity. 

The power and sophistication of a demon is originally based upon that of its creator; a human is sophisticated enough to create a highly sentient demon, but usually not mature enough in spirit to spawn a demon capible of manipulating reality. A human with psychic or magic abilities can spawn a demon capible of transformation, and a human that interacts with spiritual entities is more likely to harness latent psychic potential to gain those abilities. Thus, demons can contribute to the psychic and spiritual development of humans who can spawn demons. The psychic and spiritual development of a human identity typically fluctuates between angelic and demonic in humans who are not self possessed. That is, a "selfless" human can rise to an angelic or demonic state. Environmental factors can prevent a human from becoming self possessed, promoting a flawed, incomplete or unstable identity. 





All elementals are divided into angelic or demonic aspects, but the entities typically referred to as angels and demons are elementals with human spiritual characteristics. 


In contemporary science, psychic potential is virtually unexplored and is not considered to be truly phenominal, making angels and demons -- as psychic or psionic phenomena -- topics of fantasy or science fiction. 

Metaphysically, angels and demons are inspirations, spiritual embodiments or personifications of autonomous thought and focused attention. According to their psychic nature they are created and exist in the mind of a host soul. They are like people in that they are identities but they are not entities in their own right. An entity can encompass many identities and often does so in order to grasp multiple perspectives or assume different perspectives. 

The main distinction between an angel and a demon is relative; a entity possesses angels and a demon possesses entities. A person possessed by a personal demon is being dominated by an aspect of herself in a way that compromises her integrity. A person can also be possessed by external demons, both the minor kind that simply preys upon her mind and the major kind that dominates and suppresses her true identity. Most types of possession are relatively benign, but some are pathological. 

Psychologically, angels and demons are creations, conceptual constructs used by a mind to divide its attention. An angel or demon is essentially a focus for entering and sustaining a state or frame of mind, defined by the understanding and intent bound by the impulse of its conception. 

The prototypical angel is a person's conscience, usually an idealized self image or archetype devoted to promoting and preserving the integrity of the entity. The counterpart prototype demon is a person's indulgence, sometimes based on self-image and often based an assimilated personalty. Any opportunistic impulse that can possess an entity or cause internal conflict, potentially compromising the integrity of the entity, could be catagorized as a demon. 

The angelic and demonic aspects of an entity become true angels and demons when an entity possesses or is possessed by them. Angels and demon can evolve from minor impulses to major personifications, either through repeated interaction with them by the entity or by the entity assuming their identities. 

When an angel or demon has greater resolution, sufficient for creative and analytical thought, it has the potential to eclipse the core identity of an entity. In the context of the mind and soul as fundamental expressions of point paradox, the true foundations of reality, angels and demons of sufficient resolution can incorporate and exploit the psychic potential of their host entities. 


Angels and demons are essentially the same thing, but different in perspective and aspect. To an angel, the mind serves the purposes of the soul, but to a demon, the soul serves the purposes of the mind. To an angel, the mind is the bridge between souls, but to a demon, souls are the foundations of the mind. To a demon, a soul is simply energy that is invested in a structure of information. To an angel, a soul is awareness that is structured by understanding. 

A demon is never entirely destroyed. An echo of it exists within every eclipsed soul. 


The pecularity of angels and demons is that their existence is based in the mind. They are intelligences that can exist in the possession of a soul, but they do not possess their own souls. They exist within the souls of their creators or hosts. 

An angel is an entity that is possessed by a soul, and thus belongs to that soul, but again does not have dominion over it. 

A demon is an entity that possesses a soul, and thus the soul belongs to it, and the demon has dominion over it, but only through domination of the soul's own mind. 
An angel is a soul harnessed by way of its inspiration, just as a demon is a soul harnessed by way of its desperation, or a mortal harnessed by way of its incarnation. 

Angels and demons have been treated as spiritual complements comparable to men and women. They are of the same species, so to speak, and are spiritually adapted to specific functions. 

A change in inspiration, from angel to demon, is comparable to a change in incarnation, from male to female, and is an experience like death (noting that death is an experience like waking up from a dream). 

A host of angels and demons can exist in the mind of a soul, along with everything else in the soul's domain. A soul can also have many minds, each according to the manifestation of an inspiration or incarnation in which it has engaged. 

Some angels fall and become human because they embrace mortality as an incarnation of the soul they inhabit. Some angels fall and become demons because they do not embrace mortality and seek to possess souls of their own. An angel, tempted with a desire for autonomy and a soul of its own falls from grace by claiming the soul of a dying mortal. A defining characteristic of demons is the possession of an unwilling host. The host is generally first among the captive souls claimed by the demon. The host of a demon is thus an angel by virtue of his or her captivity. 

Demons perceive existence as gods do, but not with the prespective of gods. Though dependent on souls to exist, demons rarely identify with the souls in their possession and are often oblivious to the suffering their existence imposes on those souls. 

A demon is not evil, hostile, malicious or malevolent by design; the evil impulses that drive demons originate in the soul it possesses, provoked by possession and domination by an alien mind. A demon is, by nature, born of a conflict between a mind and a soul. A soul that does not fight possession, because the native mind adapts to the alien influence or even adopts the identity, takes possession of it and makes it an extension of itself. Thus, an angel becomes an entity when an entity becomes an angel. 



Angels and Demons <from Flesh & Blood>

As men and women belong to the same species, divided and united by sex, demons and angels are likewise natural and necessary complements to each other. As men evolved from animals, gods--as either demons or angels may be called--evolved from elementals. They are not divided, as is often assumed, by good and evil, or even law and chaos--anymore than human beings are. Divided they are--humanity itself exists within the rift between them--and what distinguishes demons and angels from each other is a subtle distinction in what mortals would collectively define as dreams--the surreal and the ideal. The true distinction is primordial, a result of point paradox, and naturally polarizes demons and angels. 

Angels are best distinguished by the fact that they are recruited and employed in a fashion consistent with their innate psyche, where demons are conscripted and fashioned into what is required of them, even though it is typical for them to be absorbed entirely into their function as angels. Demons are embodiments of a soul evolving within a naked mind while angels are embodiments of a mind evolving within a naked soul. Hence demons are predisposed to omniscience, knowing how to manipulate even the tiniest shred of power to the greatest effect, while angels are predisposed to omnipotence, capable of performing virtually any task with but the slightest impulse. This is what makes them the lords of the abstract and the absolute, demons acting from a collective over-mind to manipulate individual souls and angels acting from a collective over-soul to manipulate individual minds. Not surprisingly, the manifest is what exists between the extremes of the abstract and the absolute, though each is in its own way representative of the truth. 

In their purest form, demons are ideas, the embodiment of information and can be roughly equated to programs or artificial intelligence, and a living demon a host organism possessed by the created or evolved design that defines it. In that sense, demons are commonly regarded as slaves as the soul or mind innate to the host is generally repressed or superceded by the functions of the demon. 

In their purest form, angels are ideals, the embodiment of understanding and can roughly be equated to works of art or the characters in a play or story. Angels represent the design or definition in creation or evolution that they are innately suited to embody. In that sense, angels are commonly regarded as staff or servants employed in presenting or projecting the influence of their ideal. 

Demons are instinctive; creatures of thought ruled by emotion. Angels are intuitive; creatures of emotion ruled by thought. Neither are exclusively good or evil. While men might be also be described as creatures of thought ruled by emotion and women might be described as creatures of emotion ruled by thought, neither is ruled exclusively by one quality. While men are more thoughtful in disposition, and women are more emotional in disposition, they both possess the complimentary quality and humans in general rely on both instinct and intuition to survive. The fusion of angelic and demonic traits in humans is as perplexing to the gods as their fusion of masculine and feminine traits is to humans. 

The actual differentiation between demons and angels occurs at conception. The conception of a new demon or angel requires the union of and intercourse between an angel and a demon. Angels and demons are all capable of bearing young, through conception or inception. A new angel is conceived when it is sired by a demon on an angel, and a new demon is conceived when it is sired on a demon by an angel. An angel or demon may be reborn, in the "image" of the parent, through direct inception. This process is responsible for the hierarchies of heaven and the abyss. Newborn angels and demons are essentially prototypes, the mechanism of divine evolution. A prototype that survives to maturity becomes a new archetype. Other demons and angels vie for the opportunity to be converted to more successful archetypes, or to eliminate those that compete with or threaten established orders. 

There is a third party to the equation, creation and destruction, from which the concepts of good and evil are derived as subjective evaluations. In the new faith, in which the gods were demoted to angels and demons, creation and destruction are embodied in the worship of a Creator and his soul destroying nemesis. The new faith has many faces, and proliferated through a number of different religions, but common to all of them is the singular embodiment of the Absolutes--the One, the None and the All (or Infinite), or God, the Adversary, and the Multitude (all other souls). Contrary to the teachings of the new faith, angels are not servants of the creator any more than demons are the servants of the Adversary. Like humans, angels and demons have creative and destructive potential. The war of the gods was a conflict between proponents of creation and proponents of destruction, with demons, angels and humans lined up on either side. 

In common terms, existence is thus divided into three realms, heaven, the world and the abyss--though each is as vast as the universe. They are in fact the same universe, veiled one from the other by perspective. 

In the kingdom of elementals, phoenixes were more primal and less evolved than angels or demons. That is partly evident in their principle avian manifestation on the physical plane. Though possessing intelligence, their evolution was not directed toward personification. Thus, while it was within the power of a phoenix to manifest a human embodiment, humanity remained an alien quality. The phoenix of this story, as a familiar, was exposed to humanity long enough to pose as a human being, but it took the lives of Logan and Morgan to cultivate the human potential of that phoenix's soul. The fusion of Logan and Morgan allowed Morgan to begin to tap into the potential that had been cultivated as a phoenix, but her dual infection by a vampire and a were-tiger stimulated the cultivation of angelic and demonic potential, forcing the awakening phoenix potential to act in a subordinate, catalytic role. 
