embodiments and inspirations

There are many ideas that make sense intuitively that are difficult to sort out conceptually, particularly in the case of supernatural entities. The mysteries of the soul and mind have been a bit easier to untangle, but the spiritual aspect is harder to qualify. Each attempt to nail down the specific, defining characteristics of gods, angels, demons and spirits, their domains and dominions, brings things a bit more into focus, but for every answer a new problem seems to emerge. 

the human perspective encompasses more possabilities than an individual human can embody. a god, by contrast, is able to embody all of the potential it encompasses. a god, like a human, encompasses the qualities of angels and demons, and like angels and demons, encompasses the creative principles of males and females. also, angels and demons are conceived and born spiritually, able to manifest themselves as they see fit physically, while humans are conceived and born physically and able to manifest spiritually as they see fit. humans, dependent upon the construct of physicality, are subject to physical mortality, while angels and demons, dependent upon the concept of spirituality, are subject to spiritual mortality. 

the flesh and the spirit are both vehicles for the psyche, but it is the psyche that is the true key to understanding the mysteries of existence. the mind is a property of the soul that allows it to encompass the existence of all souls, and a soul can only be accessed by virtue of its mind. the relationship between the spiritual and the physical is essantially that of concept and construct, the true nature of each is information, but the manner in which that information is employed makes all the difference. information is abstracted and manifested in ways that engage the mind and cause it to evolve. all entities exist on the threshold of the mind. an individual's practical existence is defined by the limits of its mind. 

The origin of familiars as developed has addressed the creation of weres and vampires. There is a spiritual bond created through a physical catalyst, the flesh or blood of an angel or demon. In both cases, the intermingling of spiritual attributes stimulates psychic potential, that can manifest as powers of regeneration, rejuvenation, transformation or transmutation that make the familiar immortal. In the case of vampires, death taints the process. 

The more pronounced the difference between two spirits, animal and elemental, the more likely it is for the animal to gain transformational or transmutational powers. All elementals are angelic or demonic, but the entities typically referred to as angels and demons are elementals with human spiritual characteristics. A ghost is generally different from angels and demons by virtue of self-posession, and thus are properly classified as souls, rather than spirits or elementals. 

Angels and demons are essentially the same thing, but different in perspective and aspect. To an angel, the mind serves the purposes of the soul, but to a demon, the soul serves the purposes of the mind. To an angel, the mind is the bridge between souls, but to a demon, souls are the foundations of the mind. To a demon, a soul is simply energy that is invested in a structure of information. To an angel, a soul is awareness that is structured by understanding. 

the pecularity of angels and demons is that their existence is based in the mind. they are intelligences that can exist in the possession of a soul, but they do not possess their own souls. angels, like demons, exist within the souls of their creators or hosts. an angel is an entity that is possessed by a soul, and thus belongs to that soul, but again does not have dominion over it. a demon is an entity that possesses a soul, and thus the soul belongs to it, and the demon has dominion over it, but only through domination of the soul's own mind. an angel is a soul harnessed by way of its inspiration, just as a demon is a soul harnessed by way of its desperation, or a mortal harnessed by way of its incarnation. 

angels and demons have been treated as spiritual complements comparable to men and women. they are of the same species, so to speak, and are spiritually adapted to specific functions. a change in inspiration, from angel to demon, is comparable to a change in incarnation, from male to female, and is an experience like death (noting that death is an experience like waking up from a dream). one concept that helps to clarify the nature of angels and demons is that they can be thought of as dreams, while humans and gods are dreamers. the difference between angels and demons is akin to the difference between dreams and nightmares. 

a host of angels and demons can exist in the mind of a soul, along with everything else in the soul's domain. a soul can also have many minds, each according to the manifestation of an inspiration or incarnation in which it has engaged. 

some angels fall and become human because they embrace mortality as an incarnation of the soul they inhabit. some angels fall and become demons because they do not embrace mortality and seek to possess souls of their own. an angel, tempted with a desire for autonomy and a soul of its own falls from grace by claiming the soul of a dying mortal. a defining characteristic of demons is the possession of an unwilling host. the host is generally first among the captive souls claimed by the demon. the host of a demon is thus an angel by virtue of his or her captivity. 

demons perceive existence as gods do, but not with the prespective of gods. though dependent on souls to exist, demons rarely identify with the souls in their possession and are often oblivious to the suffering their existence imposes on those souls. 

a human being is a soul presented with an opportunity to develop its mind. the world a human exists in provides it with a constructive and conceptual framework in which to evolve, ideally to the point where it can sustain its own psychic existence. a ghost, the sustained psyche of a human being, tends to be static, while a god is dynamic and able to continue growing and refining itself. 

a first generation vampire is born from the blood of an angel or demon, while a first generation were were is born from the flesh of an angel or demon. thus, they are commonly called familiars. the were familiar takes human form generally because the demon's host was human. 