i threshold-interface


The mind is both the threshold and the interface serving as the primary medium of existence. It is one of the pardoxes of reality. A domain exists within the mind of an entity and yet entities exist within the domain of a mind, which means that an entity is the host of a domain on one side of the threshold and the guest of a domain on the other.  

Space and time are the static and dynamic aspects of the interface between entities and domains, existing in abstract and manifest forms in the mind as secondary media. 

The physical and the spiritual are the manifest and abstract aspects of the interface between entities and domains; the distinction between physical entities and spiritual entities concerns the aspect of the interface in which they were established. 

All things manifest are a product of the domain expressing an aspect of the abstract; a spirit is an abstract expression of the full range of possabilities of a thing. The body of an entity is an aspect of its spirit and the spirit of an entity is an aspect of its soul. Because the potential of a soul is unlimited, a soul can engage any aspect of expression, even if the expression is the property of another mind. It is the soul's ability to engage aspects of another mind that permits interface between souls. 

A mind is derived from an inherent property of the soul that allows it to encompass the existence of all souls -- its void. 

A soul can only be accessed by virtue of its mind, the structure of its own awareness and apparent to another awareness as information. A mind can encompass an infinite number of souls in the interface. A mind that serves as the domain of other souls can be thought of as a god. A mind that strives to dominate or possess souls can be thought of as a demon. 

A soul can have an infinite number of minds, each based on a distinct identity. In a soul possessing a multitude of mature minds, those mindscan be thought of as angels. Though possessed by and dependent on the soul of another entity, fully resolved angels -- like all explicit incarnations or personifications of a soul -- are properly classified as entities.  



The determination of reality, which is created through participation, involves fate and free will -- the former manifesting consequences of every action in the resolution of events with the latter limiting the possabilities through choice. The choices people make determine the version of reality they participate in, including the choice to live with the consequences of each other's actions. 

