Vampires

The myths and legends about vampires are based on generalized speculation and exaggeration of reports from actual encounters. There are different stages vampires can go through, and different traits and characteristics that reveal themselves under certain conditions. Vampires do not feed solely on blood, but it is something they require in order to function properly. Vampires do not generally kill their human prey, since the first component of vampirism is transmitted by their bite. A vampire's bite is restorative; it has the power to raise the dead or rejuvenate the living. In essence, the bite gives the dead a few more days of life and leaves the living a few days younger.

I

In most cases, vampires do not bite the dead, but when a living recipient of a vampire bite dies or is slain within days of the bite, he or she rises from the dead. The regenerative properties of a vampire bite have a refining quality, drawing flesh and spirit into closer association. In the case of the slain, flesh and spirit are reunited, but the catalyst for sustaining that union, life, has been interrupted. The risen dead is essentially a ghost in a shell. The vampire bite preserves, but is not capible of restoring, the processes of life, so once its influence wears off, the insatiable hunger and thirst of the dead is what usually drives a revenant to attack the living. 

Those that eat the flesh of their victims tend to remain revenants, mutating into zombies that later decay into skeletons. Those that simply drink the blood of their victims enter the first stage of vampirism. The blood provides life energy and nutrients in a form the revenant can assimilate due to changes in the flesh and spirit caused by the initial bite in the absence of normal living processes which gradually override the infection. The blood of the living does not provide what the vampire needs to develop into its full powers. To become fully fledged, a new vampire has to find a mature vampire that is willing to adopt it into a bloodline. 

II

The process initiated by the bite is completed when the immature vampire feeds on the blood of a mature vampire and enters the second stage of vampirism. Most vampires are discouraged from holding on to their humanity. Domination of younger vampires is inherent in the nature of the bloodlines and reinforced by fear and ignorance. The vampires most likely to survive are turned and blooded at the same time, protected and controlled by their sires. The second stage of vampirism completes the fusion of flesh and spirit, and the vampire becomes sustained by light, though the repair and maintenence of its body still requires it to feed on mortal blood. 

Though few experiment enough discover it, vampires can reaclimate to natural food by ingesting it in liquid form. Restoring the metabolic processes of the body puts tremendous strain on the spirit, so revenants and vampires tend to adapt to the simplest diet to meet their needs, and blood usually meets those needs most effectively. Solid foods are the most difficult for vampires to readjust to, but returning to a solid diet is one of the most reliable ways to restore themselves to a lasting semblence of life. Blood, while quick to revitalize a vampire, gives only a fleeting restoration of life, and increases sensativity to intense light. 

III

The third stage of vampirism is one that few vampires are ever told about. Ironically, it beings by succumbing to their greatest fear, burning. The burning of a vampire, by sunlight or in the pyre, is necessary for a vampire to evolve into its full powers, and complete its spiritual evolution. Like angels and demons, true vampires are living spirits. This is the secret to their immortality, and the state of vampire existence that accounts for some of the more bizarre vampire myths, such as the ability to transform into mist or ash, their lack of reflection or shadow when perceived solely in the mind of their observers, and even their susceptability to spiritual admonition, wards and symbols.   

