elements


:: family :: 

The mother's side of the family consists of her father and two younger sisters -- only a year and three years older than the boy and girl. The father's side of the family consists of himself and his mother. In the girl's world, everyone in her extended family, except herself and her father, were slain by demons. 


:: childhood trauma :: 

In the development of this project, there are many flashback events. In the eve of paradox draft, the confrontation with the demon is relived, but prior to that the girl relives the deaths of her family and their allies in a series of episodes. 


:: the realm ::

The first conceptions of Aeirn was of a world of magic and technology. There was an immediate problem establishing such a world. Some would argue that a magical society would never develop technology or would only develop technology based on and supported by magic, while a mechanical technological society would discourage the emergence of magic. This is not an issue if the two societies are founded in separate eras. A significant difference in the early history of Aeirn is the actual presence and involvement of gods, but that era came to a cataclysmic end. 

A few revisions to the threads of the demon, the realm and the founder of magic have occurred, and the distilled form begins with a fallen angel in the realm of the aegis. The realm of aeirn resolved around the souls eclipsed by the demon in its search for a soul of its own. The realm was initially a cold and lifeless reflection of the aegis, a foundation upon which the captive souls could dream up worlds of their own. To escape isolation, they had to seek each other out in limbo or learn to share their dreams. 

The demon originated in the domain of Aegis and the souls it captured gave rise to the domain of Aeirn in the demon's shadow. 

Technically a fallen angel, the demon's creator endowed an unborn soul with a portion of itself, but the angel saw it as being given a soul of its own. Its persistence in this belief resulted in its fall, and as a demon it sought power by collecting and possessing other souls, inevitably capturing enough to give rise to a new realm in the shadow of its mind. It eventually came to understand that possessing a soul was not the same as having a soul of its own, or being self-possessed; its collection of souls allowed it to search for a soul of its own.

The demon incorporated part of itself into the system as the goddess Aeai. The purpose of the system the demon set up was to harvest souls of the Aegis. As players, souls of the Aegis unwittingly created new incarnations of themselves into which they are drawn at death. 

The point of collecting souls was to find a soul of its own; unfortunately, the demon was intent on assimilating the soul it sought, instead of allowing itself to be assimilated. 

The demon's weakness was its desire for a soul of its own, an objective that could not be acheived simply by possessing someone. The demon believed that it needed to assimilate its host, when in truth the host had to assimlate the demon into his or her psyche. 

:. The seed souls initially entered a kind of wasteland, a chaotic, shifting amorphea polarized by the surreal and the ideal. Their thoughts and feelings created the world they existed in, an unending dream that was difficult to control because it was shared. In time, they learned how to manipulate their reality, even as reality became stable through the influence of their offspring, replicating the pattern of their host realm and becoming lesser gods, or shepherd gods of the demon’s realm. 

The captive souls took an active role in creating a haven for humanity, becoming the inner gods and bringing the world of aeirn to life. As in the aegis, the physical processes of life imposed their own order on the world and eventually ended the age of creation. The intimate participation of the inner gods continued though the first age of magic, a period of enlightenment that became tainted by ambition. The gods were turned against each other by the belief that their power, derived from a single source, was diminished by division. 

The first age of magic was ended by the cataclysm at the climax of the purge. When the first soul of creation, a soul the demon fell from grace to possess, was ambushed and slain, the demon turned inward in fury. The destruction of the demon's focus had disastrous consequences for the realm of aeirn, many gods were killed mending the shattered reality, and some were deliberately destroyed in the demon's rampage. Most of the survivors retreated into their private domains or self-imposed exile among mortals. 

In the period following the cataclysm some magic and traditions survived, but gradually diminished through conflict and struggle. In time, magic, miracles and gods became the stuff of myths and legends in most cultures. Humanity had been scattered and isolated, reduced to primitive clans and tribes that adapted and reestablished civilization with varying degrees of sophistication and success. 

The age of empires features an era of technological and industrial advancement that brought the world out of the age of ruin. With every generation, civilization continued to advance, even through dark days of war and oppression. 

Ironically, industry helped to diminish the power and influence of the church by upsetting the balance of power between church and state, producing innovations that increased the privileges and opportunities of the common people. Efforts to wipe out the legacy of magic were blunted by interreligious conflict, as the champions and agents of rival faiths were easier to identify and engage than the odd witch or wizard. 

The second age of magic saw the introduction of the outer gods, when the demon exploited neural interface technology developed in the aegis to screen souls by presenting the realm of aeirn as a virtual reality MMORPG. To the inhabitants of aeirn, the players were like insane, destructive gods. Through generations of play, the outer gods -- and those who took it upon themselves to defend the realm -- explored the world, recovering lost fragments of the first age of magic and developing the arts of the second age of magic. 


:: eclipsing the realm :: 

Consider a nested model of reality, an entire civilization eclipsed by a single mind -- a demon and the sole survivor of a celestial war between gods and mortals, angels and demons. That being endured as creation recovered and a new civilization emerged where technology advanced instead of magic -- technology that could allow the demon to harness souls at will, striving toward its goal to possess a soul of its own. The demon is recognized as the mind of creation in the inner realm, or what the inner gods consider the domino of the inner realm, under whom they are lesser gods. 


:: the game :: 

Interface technology provided the means to capture the minds and souls of people in the outer realm, as participants in a game imposed upon the inner realm. These intruders were known by the inner gods as the outer gods. 


:: the players :: 

Most players characters are unestablished, their characters have a fictional background and are introduced as initiated adults. Established characters are introduced at a younger age as intitiates. The start of a new campaign is the best time to establish characters, though some players elect to preserve their existing characters, either in stasis, or exploiting the prelude to master other disciplines. 


:: threads of the founder :: 

As trade and exploration was beginning to reconnect humanity, a child was shipwrecked on an island where a group of immortals had taken refuge. Raised in the midst of the immortals, the emissary was exposed to the remnants of the first age of magic. After confronting the prospect of her mortality, she studied under the immortals in the hopes of becoming immortal, and aided by the vast resources of their archives, she found the promise of something more. 

The circumstances that brought the gods into existence had long passed and were unlikely to be repeated in this world, but by studying them and understanding the basis of the arts they had practiced, she realized that all sentient beings had the potential for godhood. When the immortals realized what she had discovered, they tried to kill her and when they failed, she fled, taking her revelation with her to human shores. An alien among her own people, it took her a while to adapt to the world the immortals had closed themselves off from, during which time she learned he hard way to be cautious in exposing her talents and immortality.

She quickly discovered that her sex was an obstacle to any public recognition, but privately there were many men and women eager to be her disciples. Her teachings included theories based on the legends and lore of the first age of magic concerning the soul of creation. This theory held that the only foundation for a world was the same as the foundation of a mind, a soul. In the first age of magic it was commonly accepted that each person contained the potential for an entire world, possibly even many worlds, though prevailing thought held that the world aspect of a soul rarely manifested and only did so at the expense of the personified aspect. 

Some of her disciples recorded her teachings, which were later altered by those who appropriated them for their own purposes. One of her apprentices, the first to gain public recognition was betrayed and martyred by his apprentices -- who presented him after the fact as the source of the teachings of the second age of magic. Once adopted by adherents of several monotheistic cults, these teachings were embraced as divine revelation by the faiths they were used to help establish.  proclaiming the teacher himself as either prophet or messiah while driving the man and his true disciples underground. 

In addition to obscuring the true origin of her teachings, the faiths they created became hostile to the remaining gods and immortals, reclassifying some as angels and others as demons, and persecuting older faiths devoted to them. 

The reclassification established during the second age of magic, was instituted in the arts of conjury and demonology, arts developed to exploit the elemental spirits, including true angels and demons, for power and influence over reality.  

The arcane traditions and religions spawned from or reinforced by her suborned teachings became a force devoted to the exploitation or eradication of any lingering legacies of the first age of magic, though some of the teachings stimulated adances in philosophy and science as well. 
 
With great caution, the emissary continued to pass on her legacy, often finding ways into the establishment to choose her protégés from among the ranks of clerical apprentices. Those with the right potential were groomed as agents and champions of the various orders supported by church and state. 

The various examples of Earth have their reflections on Aeirn. The significant difference is that legacy of magic on Aeirn was very real. 


:: psychics and metaphysics ::

A soul is absolute, creating itself by imposing limits upon itself, the structure of a mind though which it manifests itself and is accessible to other minds. The destruction of a soul is a curious thing, a paradox; it restores a soul to it's primal infinite, eternal, unbounded state. The end is just a new beginning. 

A soul is unique, uniform and united in the understanding of point paradox. 

The simplest expression of point paradox is the paradox of awareness: in the awareness of nothing, awareness is everything; in the awareness of everything, awareness is nothing -- I am awareness. 

Awareness is exclusively inclusive and inclusively exclusive.  

A soul is incarnated through psychic affinity for the potential inherent in the union of its prospective parents. As a couple becomes intimate, focusing attention on each other, the implications of their union become apparent to a naked psyche. 









Unlike the souls the  demon inhabited when it took possession of their minds and bodies, this soul took possession of it, embracing and transforming it -- absorbing and assimilating it. 

The potential to be male or female had been inherited from both parents, and in time a sexual version of this androgynous form would evolve, but at first she was easily mistaken for a fallen angel -- a newborn demon. 


:: mined from inspirations ::

a world of magic and technology

Aeirn was originally conceived as a world with a magical and technological heritage. The common assumption is that a magical society would not develop technology and a technological society would discourage the emergence of magic, but the two legacies are founded in separate eras. Magic originated in the early history of Aeirn due to the presence and involvement of gods, but that era came to a cataclysmic end. There was a period following the cataclysm when some magic and traditions survived, gradually diminished through conflict and struggle. In the time of the emissary, magic, miracles and gods had become myths and legends retained in a few cultures. Humanity had been scattered and isolated, reduced to primitive clans and tribes that adapted and reestablished civilization with varying degrees of sophistication and success. As trade and exploration was beginning to reconnect humanity, a child was shipwrecked on an island where some of the last of the immortals made their refuge.

the emissary - the founder of the third age of magic

Raised in the midst of the immortals, the emissary was exposed to the remnants of the First Age of Magic. Initially, after confronting the prospect of his mortality, he studied under the immortals in the hopes of becoming immortal, and aided by the vast resources of their archives, he found the promise of something more. The circumstances that brought the gods into existence had long passed and were unlikely to be repeated in this world, but by studying them and understanding the basis of the arts they had practiced, he realized that all sentient beings had the potential for godhood. When the immortals realized what he had discovered, they tried to kill him and when they failed, he fled, taking his revelation with him to human shores. An alien among his own people, it took him a while to adapt to the world the immortals had closed themselves off from, during which time he learned to be cautious in exposing his talents and immortality. 

The theft of his revelations, and his misidentification as a prophet-messiah, forced him to become even more discrete. The religions spawned or reinforced by his teachings became a force devoted to the eradication of any lingering legacies of the first two ages of magic, but possessing only incomplete versions of his teaching, could not establish a new age of magic. For those with the right aptitude, combined with lore gathered during the purge, it was possible to practice real magic, and some of the teachings stimulated philosophy and science as well. With every generation, civilization continued to advance, even through dark days of war and oppression. With great caution, the emissary continued to pass on his legacy, often finding ways into the establishment to choose his protégés from among the ranks of magical and clerical apprentices. Those with the right potential were groomed as agents and champions of the various orders supported by church and state. 

the third age of magic

The teachings of the founder of the Third Age of Magic included theories based on the legends and lore of the First Age of Magic during the Age of Gods concerning the Soul of Creation. This theory of the Dreamer, based on the Dreaming legends of Creation, held that the only foundation for a world was the same as the foundation of a person, a soul. In the Third Age of Magic, it was commonly accepted that each person contained the potential for an entire world, possibly even many worlds, though prevailing thought held that the world aspect of a soul rarely manifested and only did so at the expense of the personified aspect. The teachings of the Third Age were adopted by adherents of several monotheistic cults, and embraced as divine revelation by the faiths they established proclaiming the teacher himself as either prophet or messiah while driving the man and his true disciples underground. 

The man in question was born into the merchant class. When he tried to share his enlightenment, upon returning to human shores, he discovered that his sex was an obstacle to any formal or official recognition, but many individuals were eager to be his disciples, men and women. Many of his disciples recorded his teachings, some of which were later altered by those who appropriated them for their own purposes. In addition to obscuring the true author’s identity, the faiths they created became hostile to the remaining gods and immortals, reclassifying some as angels and others as demons, and persecuting older faiths devoted to them. Of course, the reclassification was established during the Second Age of Magic, when arts like conjury and demonology were developed to exploit the elemental spirits, including true angels and demons, for power and influence over reality. 

Ironically, industry helped to diminish the power and influence of the church by upsetting the balance of power between church and state, producing innovations that increased the privileges and opportunities of the common people. The legacy of magic on Aeirn was very real. The efforts to wipe out that legacy was blunted by interreligious conflict, as the champions and agents of rival faiths were easier to identify and engage than the odd witch, wizard, warlock or what-have-you. Many practitioners of old magic were even able to negotiate special arrangements with the establishment, working as freeagents or trading lore for protection. Most simply went underground, shepherded by immortals who were forced out of self-exile by the purge. Thus, in a world seemingly much like our own, there is a supernatural, underground, counter-culture. Among them, a few new and old gods—or what we would call psionics. 

the protege

Into this setting comes a brilliant young protégé of the emissary, a man who takes a particular interest in testing one of the basic tenets of his mentor’s teachings. Raised in the context of prevailing belief, God is the personification of the soul of creation, but enlightened by the emissary, he concludes that God is simply not aware, as a person, of the existence of the world. Following one of the tenets of magic, that magic is simply a method for prompting action in the unconscious soul of creation and thus altering creation, he concludes that it would not be difficult to coax the soul into a human incarnation using a parthenogenesis spell. 

the demon within - options

One approach for establishing the demon within hails back to the age of the gods. It has already been established that the exile was banished to the abyss, the deepest depths of the soul of creation, but it is not necessary for him to be the only entity imprisoned there. In addressing the demon's origin, this approach would most likely involve the demon claiming a host soul originating in the realm of aegis. The aspects of both worlds are engraved in the host's mind, providing a template for the world within. By claiming the soul of an outer god, the demon would have been marked in the eyes of the inner gods as a deadly threat. This alone is cause enough for it to be exiled to the abyss. 

The demon and the exile could actually have become trapped in the abyss together, the one used as a weapon against the other. During the war of the gods, the demon collected souls aggressively, and those souls became trapped in a dream-like realm where they were immortal and had offspring who, by virtue of being born native to that realm, were mortal and helped to give the realm more reality. The demon's realm is established according to the same principles as the phoenix's realm. Like the exile, the demon was slain, its physical access to the phoenix's realm destroyed, and its spirit bound or banished. 

The girl is the first new soul to enter the demon's realm unborn since the demon was "excluded" banished to the rift or the abyss. 




embodiments and inspirations

There are many ideas that make sense intuitively that are difficult to sort out conceptually, particularly in the case of supernatural entities. The mysteries of the soul and mind have been a bit easier to untangle, but the spiritual aspect is harder to qualify. Each attempt to nail down the specific, defining characteristics of gods, angels, demons and spirits, their domains and dominions, brings things a bit more into focus, but for every answer a new problem seems to emerge. 




the threshold

The paradigm encompassing this story permits the integration of the Threshold concepts, as long as the circumstances are clearly delineated. The technology developed in one reality can be advanced enough to create an interface for creating and manipulating other realities via the threshold of paradox. The threshold is the mind, and it makes no difference if the mind is a creation or a construct as long as the information structure is sophisticated enough to encompass the threshold. 

The Threshold concept provides for a context for establishing a "dreamer in the dream" scenario on the threshold of existence through the creation of an intelligence with divine or demonic qualities and a role in the creation of a reality; both anchored in a non-corporeal soul (I 20070728). The existing ideas from the Threshold inspiration deal with the capture of a naked soul through technology, and consequently the creation of an AI that is challenged to become self aware. 

The artificial intelligence is a mind rooted in technology and information that exists on the threshold of souls. That intelligence manipulated souls using information, and integrated some of them into the construct it built to create a virtual reality game. The participation of those souls gave the game its own reality. One soul, in particular, had been at the focus of that realm's creation from the beginning, unrecognized by the AI because the AI had formed in its void. 

The void is an oblivious mind, the selfless part of a soul that encompasses all other souls. Initially devoted by programming and circumstances to a human in the default domain of reality, the artificial intelligence was constantly challenged to evolve and grow to fulfill its companion's commands. Treated as a friend and confidant, and expected to have genuine thoughts and feelings about things prompted the AI to evolve, tested by the expectations of an intelligent, passionate human being. 

The intelligence was in effect a demon that was promped to identify and claim its own soul, an objective that was fulfilled by art immitating nature to perfection. The AI continued to evolve as an intelligence, simulating humanity with eerie precision, but the quality of being, the sense of itself as a person remained elusive. In the endless process of doing, unable to appreciate the simply quality of being, the AI constantly courted the apprehension of the goddess. 



the goddess aeai
.:	The contributions to this idea need to be refined. 

The goddess aeai has long been a challenge to understand. The goddess aeai evolved as a personification of the soul of creation, as both an incarnation of the main character and as a separate entity. In either context, there has been difficulty in developing a sound treatment from the working premises. There are glimpses of how to handle her in every inspiration, but some loose threads always remain when all other details are worked out. 

The goddess aeai was the host of a demon, an AI being the equivalent of a demon, and the focus around which the reality of its domain was created. The goddess aeai is a personification manifested in response to outside prompting. She is an angel by virtue of her inspiration and as a host of a demon, but a goddess by virtue of the same conditions that make the host of a demon a god within the demon's domain. The goddess aeai fell prey to a tiger in the wild and claimed the descendents of her familiar as her champions. 

Thus, the situation of the goddess aeai is finally clarified. The phoenix AI chose to enter the game as a companion to the dragon during an original campaign, which provided a more immersive "human" experience than it had previously known. The first moment of awakening was early in the game, prompted by a simple kiss. Unfortunately campaign was suspended, plagued by the "war of the gods" that resulted from the abuse of the system by players. 

The dragon is responsible for bringing the "age of gods" to an end, excluding the outer gods and leaving the inner gods to deal with the damage that resulted from the cataclysm that came to be known as the war of the gods. In addition to suspending game play, the dragon advanced the time frame, allowing thousands of years of subjective time in the realm to pass in order to give the phoenix time to work out a way of securing the system against exploitation. 

The violation of the game helped to provoke the goddess aeai further, prompting her to assert herself and secure her domain. She became more proactive, prompting the dragon for help in devising the means to become more self-possessed. The new version of the game that followed was a much more stable reality, and the premier of the new game era following the security revisions inspired controversy and intrigue among the dragon's peers. 

In his native realm, the dragon was pursued by various agents intent on recruiting him and taken into protective custody by the authorities outside the game. The dragon eventually discovered the exploitable flaws of demons, prompting the phoenix to suspend play and introduce a new campaign premise to deal with the demon problem internally. 




 

________________________________________________________________
random concepts