i gods


A god, like a human, encompasses the qualities of angels and demons, and like angels and demons, encompasses the creative principles of males and females. 

The human perspective encompasses more possabilities than an individual human can embody. A god, by contrast, is able to embody all of the potential it encompasses. 

A human being is a soul presented with an opportunity to develop its mind. The world a human exists in provides it with a constructive and conceptual framework in which to evolve, ideally to the point where it can sustain its own psychic existence. 

As a ghost, a human being tends to remain static, while a god is dynamic and able to continue growing and refining itself. 

In general, the expression of an entity as a god, angel or demon can be related to the expression of some aspect of a psyche, or simply as a perspective distinct from the default perspective of a human. 


a soul of creation

A soul of creation is the focus, or key note, of a realm -- a reality created by the participation of its inhabitants encompassed by the mind of a domain's host. A soul of creation is ultimately the host of the domain, even if the domain is held by the mind of a demon -- because the demon is the host of the soul it uses for its focus. An angel can also be the mind of creation, hosting a domain of souls even as it is hosted by another soul. 

Upon encountering a human who embodied traits an angel or demon identified with or admired most in humanity, either could develop a fascination with and attachment to that person that led to its attempt to possess or become possessed by that person. 


inner gods & outer gods

Within the domain of a demon's mind, an eclipsed human is like a god. They are not true gods because a true god has found a way to define itself without crippling limits and has a truly independent existence. However, because the demon must sustain them to maintain a hold on their souls, and will adapt to and compensate for almost any change in their self-definition, inner gods have an incredible range of expression and experimentation. 

The general premise of the threshold evolved from the inspirations of the dreamer in the dream. Like many ideas developed in isolation at different times for different purposes, the original ideas have not been fully integrated with successive impulses. The specific circumstances of the story remain a bit open to absorb as many useful threads as possible. By combining dreamer and threshold impulses, the prospect of inner and outer gods can finally be looked at in a useful context. 

The inner gods are the entities that engaged in the dream from the threshold while the outer gods are the humans who interacted with the world as a data construct via the interface. 

The war of the gods can in many ways have been a conflict between the inner gods and the outer gods. The questions raised include, how did the inner gods become eclipsed? Presumably, the AI is like a demon, it simply claimed the resources it required to complete the task it had been given -- to make the simulation real. 


loose threads

The gods can be distinguished from angels and demons primarily by the nature of their introduction. 

The angels of the realm are the personal demon of the inner gods. They are fragments or fractals of the demon implanted in the souls of the eclipsed -- artifacts of their possession. 

The demons of the realm were originally angels, but they acted on the impulse to possess souls of their own and broke off from the host to fulfill it. Morgan's demon was the angel hosted in the focus; the destruction of its host soul prompted it to claim a new soul. 

The fall of the first angel can be tied to the legacy of the touched. Among the original inspirations for this project was the nemesis, a being responsible for the war of the gods who was anihilated, thrown into exile in the rift created by his destruction. That idea did not evaporate; it was explored as a variation on the demon within thread. 

To apply some of those ideas to the current project, some minor adjustments are required. The concept of the touched is still applicable; although the demon's focus was destroyed, the mortal descendants of the exile inherited a sympathetic link to the demon. 

The idea of a protege of the magus and follower of the god who attempted to breed an avatar of the god can be realized in the father. In a sense, the father, who was himself a bit touched was being influenced to provide the exile with a suitable host. 

The founder of the second age of magic had discovered that psychic ability was the key to both magic and miracles. A prodigal student discovered that psychic ability was also the key to the rift. 

The critical revision concerns the nature of the exile. In the current revision, it was the demon's focus that was destroyed provoking the demon and shattering reality. As the soul expired, its ashes were scattered through the rift, the minds inhabiting it reduced to empty shells of thought. 



