20070731

The tendency to backslide into older project themes is part of every revision attempt. The ideas developed in isolation contain elements that are difficult to adapt to new approaches and thus encourage a return to an older idea previously discarded, discarding the new ideas that restore interest in the project. So it comes as no surprise to see this cropping up again at this time. In this case, the original technological emphasis of the Threshold project has prompted a gradual dismissal of the new ideas developed concerning the consequences of demonic possession. 

The new approach provided a way to establish the protagonist as a normal girl to whom extraordinary things happen. Even though it employed a staggered division into male and female incarnations, it did so in a way that allowed the two to confront each other as equals at a critical juncture in their evolution. It also provided a way to incorporate several of the oldest themes explored by this author in writing. It dealt with the girl's traumatic childhood ordeal, a confrontation with a demon, that leaves her an orphan haunted by the death of her mother and tormented by the demon she somehow managed to banish to the depths of her own psyche. It also resolved long standing issues concerning the demon's motive for confronting her in the first place, and the were-vampire heritage of the evolved character. 

The recent evolution of the angel of death concept and the role it plays in the creation of weres and vampires, has prompted a reassessment of several preexisting concepts, but the idea that works best is one of the first explored in recent revision. The girl was conceived by a were-tiger and a vampire. The tiger bloodline her mother descended from served the goddess as her champions, making it their duty to protect mortals from threats like vampires. The vampire bloodline her father descended from had been established in the domain of the goddess, coming into conflict with the champions every time a mortal devoted to the goddess was slain or turned. 

Her father was a vampire who clung to his humanity. His longing for the life he remembered led him to discover what foods and drinks he could tolerate, and in proper combinations even lessened his dependency on blood. Over time, he was able to expand his diet to the point of restoring his body's metabolism and passing for human. He also discovered that it reduced his sensitivity to light and flame. The more vital he became, the easier it was to resist the compulsions of his vampiric nature, and this allowed him to escape from the coven he had been raised into. He met and fell in love with a woman he later discovered was a were-tiger who, like him, had fled from her own kind. They overcame their differences, and her blood provided him the one thing he had been missing. 

It was a strange symbiosis. Their different natures complemented each other. His bite enhanced her regenerative longevity, preserving her youth, her blood enhanced his restorative regeneration, restoring his life and fertility. This, in turn, allowed them to conceive a child. Unfortunately, their kin managed to track them down, and when they refused to be separated and fled once again, they were hunted down again. The couple had been able to keep his true nature a secret from her family, some of whom stood by her, concerned for the danger she placed herself and her family in by isolating herself from her clan. Unfortunately, her true nature could not be concealed from the vampires, who struck without mercy and slaughtered all but one of the couple's family. 

The father was destroyed, forced into the final stage of vampirism. The mother's clan kin were slaughtered and she was possessed by the angel of death, and slain by her daughter when the girl defended herself from the demon. The girl was traumatized by the massacre and taken under the wing of her mother's patron and mentor. The demon, trapped in the depths of the girl's psyche, spent the next ten years plotting her possession, waiting for the opportunity to strike her down from within. Having been possessed by the demon at the time her body was slain, the girl's mother had joined the other souls it had claimed within the demon's domain, where a different reality had evolved. When the girl is finally possessed from within, she is reuinted with her mother in that realm. 

The first book deals with the rise of the demon within and the girl's experiences in the demon's shadow. The "older" sisters that appear in material that will be adopted are actually introduced as young children in this book. It is only when the boy the girl is reincarnated as is submerged, releasing her consciousness back into the demon's shadow, that she is reintegrated into her mother's second family as the "youngest" daughter before being confronted by the boy. He was conceived by the demon in order to thwart her attempt to reclaim her body under the guidance of the host. The boy was possessed as a consequence of searching for his father and attempting to slay the demon he found instead. The host takes the boy under his wing when he falls into the shadow. 

The girl, having previously been in the shadow, was able to make her own way back to her mother, while the boy is brought later, when the host realizes what he is. The host does not reveal the boy's true identity when he enlists the girl's aid in helping the boy prepare to reclaim his body from the demon. The host gambles on their combined potential being enough to overcome and destroy the demon, freeing the host. The girl's role is to aid the boy by making a direct assault on the demon through him, allowing him to reassert himself in his body. The demon's possession of the host was given as the reason why this plan had failed in her case. The result, of course, is that the boy and girl both end up in possession of the body reclaimed from the demon, which had been altered somewhat in the interim. 

The two work out a way of sharing the body, after discovering that it would manifest the form of the dominant spirit. The discovery had also allowed them to escape from the trap the demon had left them in when they drove it out. When they took possession, they were being hunted for the crimes the demon had committed and caught with the blood of one of his victims on their hands. The changed nature of the body when they claimed it made it easy for them to be mistaken for a demon. The girl's father and cousin (on her mother's side) provide assistance, recognizing the girl when she asserts herself. The father trains them in spirit projection, realizing in the process that the boy is a reincarnation of the girl. The nature of their relationship kept him from revealing the truth to them, for fear of causing a schism in their psyche. 

The girl presents herself as the boy's mate, to gain acceptence from his family and to explain her recurring presence. Initially, she is the one living predominantly in the spirit, believing that she and the boy are seperate entities, and that he was naturally entitled to inhabit his own body. Her reunion with her father and the discovery of her vampire heritage provide her with more than enough to occupy her, including the prospect of one day manifesting a new body of her own. She also realizes that the demon was most likely engaged in the same process, seeking to either manifest a new form of its own or claim a new vessel. The body of the demon's original host had been destroyed during the massacre by her parents, and she had prevented it from reestablishing itself in her mother's body. Wondering about the fate of her own body led her to realize the truth about the boy she loved.  


General Topics

The goddess is a goddess by virtue of the same conditions that make the host of a demon a god within the demon's domain. The host of a demon is thus an angel by virtue of his or her captivity. Thus, the situation of the goddess is finally clarified. She was the host of a demon, and the focus around which the reality of its domain was created. Of course, for her and the other captive souls, the dream that preceeded that creation, a reflection of her former reality, was their reality. 


