! 2009 initiation


avatar of the goddess

one demon found that peace when a little girl sacrificed herself to save her mother. in her possession, the demon once more became an angel, and when the girl embraced it fully, she was an avatar of the goddess. to allow the girl to grow up, the spirit released her, remaining part of her as her guardian angel. 

ten years later, the girl must confront the consequences of her action and become, once and for all, the avatar of the goddess. unfortunately, another spirit had designs upon her soul and by confronting it, the girl would begin to unravel the secrets of creation and the prospect of becoming a goddess. 

it would only cost her identity. 


it was a time when the followers of the goddess faced persecution from the church of the one god. the followers of the goddess had hope, fueled by rumors that an avatar of the goddess was among them. after ten years, the girl those rumors spoke of was about to discover what she was -- and she was not prepared to face it. 

the girl had fallen in love with a boy at a school founded to study and control rifts. an unintentional consequence of the use of magic was that it could tear holes in the fabric of space and time. within the rift, dreams and nightmares were reality. this dangerous phenomenon could be as small and subtle as a breeze -- and more devestating than the fiercest storm. 

as the girl was confronted with her destiny, she was dealing with a completely different, but equally challenging revelation. when she announced herintention to marry the boy, his father told her of their origin on the other side of a rift. the boy she loved was an incarnation of herself born in another version of reality -- and she was carrying his child! 


20081211 - <two incarnations> a variation worth exploring involves having the girl and the boy both experience a version of the massacre. the girl remains in her own version of reality and becomes the primary thread, while the boy crosses the threshold to her realm to escape the threat the girl managed to overcome.



20081127 - <three incarnations> previously, threads tended to be absorbed by the parents that were intended for the main character. among the options explored up to this point is a way to establish the main character as a boy and a girl in different splinters of reality, and a way for them to be eclipsed and fused through interaction with the demon of the realm. this allows many of those displaced threads to be restored to the main character. 

the child of fusion thread can be adapted to the splinter incarnations thread to produce a three incarnation scenario. the advantage of establishing the two versions of the main character in splinter realms and bringing them together for the ordeal of the child of fusion is that it restores the threads to the protagonist and provides coherent support for threads that might otherwise be discarded. 

as a consequence of combining the splinter incarnations and child of fusion threads, a new, third incarnation of the protagonist is created in a process the parent incarnations survive relatively unchanged. the boy crosses over to the girl's realm, they meet, fall in love, conceive a child, the girl is possessed, bites the boy, they become infected with familiarity, the child manifests and the demon takes possession of the boy. 

the child is a new incarnation of the protagonist, a version conceived in the union of two halves of one soul. or, the embryo becomes the catalyst of their fusion and transformation into something new. 



20090119 - <the demon without> the revision of the demon within thread is also possible. in a sense, the demon of the realm is within everyone, but the girl actually connects to it and it pursues the possibility that she is the soul it has been looking for. unable to master her from within, the demon enters the realm through her; taking possession of his body and causing their fusion by biting her. 

the greatest simplification would be for the demon to attack while their minds are merged during a moment of intimacy. by coming to the girl's defense, the boy leaves his own body vulnerable to possession. this can be the time that the familiarty infection occurs, or it can occur afterwards, but in either case following the conception of their redoubt -- which acts as the catalyst of their fusion. 



20081127 - <splinter incarnations> the splinters of the boy and girl branched off at the moment of their conception as sexual opposites. events prior to that are identical, and differences between the splinter realities are primarily consequences of one being a boy and the other being a girl -- secondary branching is the consequence of natural fate and free will. the event that introduces the boy into the girl's world is paradoxical, a step across the threshold.  

the critical event is the soul choosing to be male or female, a choice confronted in the moment of conception. assuming that the soul influences the process, starting with the genetic potential in the mother's egg and deciding what to be from among the options presented by the father's seed, morgan defined every attribute clearly, save for one -- sex. to resolve this, in one version of reality, he was born male, in another, she was born female. 

the problem encountered using the splintered realms approach was that it eliminated the girl's family ties. most of her family was slain in the massacre and -- if the girl was the one to cross the threshold -- she would have to be severely traumatized to fail to recognize them when she arrived in the boy's realm. however, if her ability to rift walk was trained, it would be reasonable for her to return to her native realm to find out what happened to her and learn about her origins. 



20090119 - it is not the splintered realms approach that costs the girl her family ties, but the manner in which her childhood ordeal is handled. given that, the boy and his father cross over from a world where the demon possessed the boy's mother and was slain by the boy's father. this at least supports the idea of the boy being raised by his father and the girl's mother being involved with "twins". 

the demon within thread starts with the girl, but is based upon the psychic potential the boy also possesses, giving her the potential to touch the mind of creation and him the potential to cross the threshold. a confrontation with a demon forced each of them to call upon that potential. 

that demon is a fallen angel of the soul of creation, the outer demon's focus, and the source of the girl's connection to the goddess. through her, the girl touches the mind of creation, what monotheism defined as the god. 



<establishing the parents> in most approaches to this story, the protagonist's parents were prevented from having an open relationship. in the adopted version, the father had been forced to marry a girl who seduced him and became pregnant. the first daughter was followed by another, two years later, and the two versions of the protagonist were conceived the following year. 

in the boy's version of reality, his father was able to claim him as his heir without identifying the boy's mother, and when he assumed his alternate's identity in the girl's realm, he again found a way to legitimize his son. being resurrected as a vampire allowed the girl's father to be with her mother, but he did not ignore his replacement. the girl's father confronted the boy's father, and once he realized that the boy's father was a version of himself, he introduced him to the girl's mother. 



<the girl's obscured ordeal> during the massacre, the girl was confronted by a demon assassin -- her mother, possessed by a fallen angel. her psychic potential manifested in response to the demon's attempt to penetrate her mind and harvest her soul. in the face of that threat, the girls' love for her mother caused her to assimilate the demon and free her mother from demonic possession. 



<the consequences of the girl's actions> unfortunately, the girl's parents had been mortally wounded, her father forced to fight her mother while she was possessed. the girl noticed that her blood healed their wounds, so she made them drink her blood hoping it would heal them inside and out -- unaware that she was resurrecting her parents as vampires. 

initially, the girl did not understand this. the person who rescued her found her sleeping between the cold, dead bodies of her parents and seperated her from them without waking her. when she did awake, she was told that her parents were dead. the people sent to recover their bodies assumed some predator -- or corpse dealer -- got to them first. 

the girl, traumatized by the official deaths of her loved ones, blocked the event from her mind and remained in a state of shock for months. when she was ready to confront the past, the only clue to help unlock her memories was her discovery in the ruins, which she later explored whenever she could. 

her mother's protege became her mentor. a distant relative was named regent to the estate and title that fell to the orphaned girl. when her parents turned up among the vampires, it was assumed that they were turned by one of the vampires involved in the attack. as vampires, their living ties were severed, but the girl defied the customs of the living and dead to stay with them. 



<the hidden consequences of the girl's actions> taking possession of the demon to free her mother made the girl the focus of an angel -- a personification of the goddess within her. it also made her the goddess of the demon's realm. 

among the inhabitants of that realm were the souls harvested and eclipsed by the demon, beginning with its original focus. the demon's focus survived as the god in that realm, a soul of creation who was under seige by a number of eclipsed souls who coveted his position. the only way for him to survive abdicating that position was by trading places with a living host of the demon -- a position few held for very long. 

the demon's focus was not evil; he was just desparate to escape his situation and had to be ruthless in order to succeed and survive. his thread is an opportunity to exploit the conspiracy of the contest for dominon and separate it from the war -- or fall -- of the gods of aeirn. both conflicts can be influenced by the impact of reality upon ideality in a sphere of creation. 



<the boy's obscured origin> when the boy was confronted by the demon posessing his mother, and the threat of having his soul devoured, his defiance caused him to break free from the assault, seizing potential the demon had stirred inside him and using it to tear himself from the fabric of reality to cross over to the girl's splinter of reality and escape. 



<the consequences of the boy's actions> the boy, traumatized by the disruption of his mind, had no coherent memories of his past. the bits and peices were still there, attached to and providing a foundation for his personality, but the facts of his childhood were hard to retrieve and unreliable. he escaped from the ruins and ended up on the streets with no idea where to go or what to do. 

the boy's father had been forced to slay his mother to stop the demon. unwilling to sacrifice another loved one, he dove into the rift created by his son, hoping to rescue him. at first, he thought the boy had opened a simple tear in space, but once confronted with news of his own death, he realized that they were stranded in a different version of reality. 



<establishment> the boy was identified as a survivor of the massacre and placed in an orphanage when he was discovered living on the streets in the girl's realm. the boy's initial confrontation with the girl occurred as a result of being assigned to the same room -- a consequence of having the same name. their time together was short; the girl was reclaimed by her mother's protege, acting as an agent of her house.  

by the time the boy's father had found him and returned to the point where they had arrived in the girl's reality, the rift had sealed itself. the boy's father did the only thing he could, and sought out the native version of his mentor, the closest thing there was to an expert on rifts. with the original rift sealed, his mentor told him, it could take forever to find a way back. 

his mentor helped the boy's father assume his native alternate's identity and introduce his son, taking advantage of the purge to provide an alternate identity for the boy's mother. it did not take long for the girl's father to confront the boy's father, and discover that the man was an alternate version of him -- and that the boy was a female version of his daughter. 

the girl's father invited the boy's father into a three-sided relationship with the girl's mother. the two men tried to keep the boy and girl from encountering each other, however -- unaware that they had met while they were both at the orphanage. their objections could not be stated, however, when others proposed their engagement. 

when the boy and girl first met at the orphanage, they had no clue they were complements, but based on their resemblance they deduced that the must be distant cousins, as did many adults. once identified, the boy and girl found themselves in rival houses. 



<engagement> the idea of engaging the boy and girl was proposed by the boy's step-mother and the girl's regent, to resolve the inheritance question at the heart of their house rivalry; it did not matter which house held precedence if the heirs to both houses were married. 


<initiation> the girl possessed natural telepathy and telekinesis. the boy possessed natural telepathy and teleportation. their psychic ability brought them to the attention of the academy. the boy and girl were recruited and offered training and education in the psychic and magic arts that their parents were again in no position to object to. 

the boy and girl become friendly rivals, as part of the same group at their school. in time, they become more intimate in anticipation of their eventual union. 



<nightmares and blackouts> an approaching storm drove the girl and her friends underground, forcing her to confront traumatic memories of being lost in the ruins. 

the first time, near the end of the summer of her seventh year she fell down an airshaft into a flooded section of the ruins

the second time, several months later, she escaped into another section of the ruins and -- presumably -- witnessed the deaths of her parents. 

the girl suspected that worse things had also happened, but she had blocked out most of her memories of the massacre. 


the girl's nightmares were brought to the surface when she arrived at school where the massacre had occurred. the familiar surroundings stimulated her memory, erroding the mental blocks that protected her from her childhood trauma. 

in addition to the nightmares, she occasionally fell prey to traumatic flashbacks, visions that caused her to black out and lose time. 

during the girl's blackouts, the demon's focus was able to gain temporary possession of her body. 

while exploring the ruins under the academy, the girl found her way to the scene of her ordeal and began to relive it in greater detail. 




<optional & variant threads> as presented here, the girl is in an unstable state struggling with the spirit inside her. at times, she embraces it and becomes an angel. at other times, it tries to assert itself and she becomes a demon under its possession. in part, the demon can defy her possession by drawing on the souls in its dominion. the demon's focus, confronts her with her options; she must embrace not only the demon, but the souls in its domain, or become its next conquest. either way, she would become a goddess, but it is a choice between being greatest or least of the gods of the demon's domain. 

the girl was confronted with the world within her while eclipsed by the demon. the god of that realm confronted her with the truth of her situation. to become an angel, she had to accept the demon's spirit as her own. to become a goddess, she had to accept the demon's dominion as her own. 

the unique advantage the girl has is the presence of a complementary incarnation of her as a boy. to offset his influence, the demon takes possession of his body, leaving him in possession of the girl's body in a position to absorb her psyche and become a single target for domination. at the same time, however, it makes itself vulnerable, putting itself in a position that would allow her to free the soul of its focus, its first conquest. 



20090121 - <the dragon within> the refinement of active threads has closed the opening for the demon within's focus, but a different possabilty surfaced. the option is based on the demon's focus having been a dragon. in short, the dragon attempts to use a dragon initiation to escape from the realm. the dragon enters the girl's dreams and uses her psychic potential to manifest itself in order to begin its hunt. the girl, pursued by the dragon and the demon, takes advantage of one to deal with the other. as a result, the dragon ends up devouring her original body -- and the option of manifesting either form. under normal circumstances, the dragon would have reincarnated her, but as a product of being eclipsed by the demon god, she had effectively resurrected herself. 

<option> the dragon initiation could result in a partial -- or selfless and unconscious -- assimilation of the demon of creation, converting it into her dragon. this dragon enters the world within her where the dragon aspect of sire dwells, while the conscious aspect enters the world without. it's an open door, other options or variations may yet emerge. a valid interpretation is that it counts as an unconscious embrace of the demon, making her dragon an angel of the demon's creator. at the least, her dragon would be a new incarnation of her in possession of an angel of the outer god. a contrast to the dragon that is the inner god. yikes!

"i am you now. another version of you, at least... i am in your domain. you are in mine. you are my goddess. i am your god." <dual eclipse>





