ei 20081013 Second Revision


Some adjustments to the first revision are needed to help simplify the situation. The first question concerns the necessity of incorporating the elements of Hunger and Thirst with the Singular Duality. 

The second question concerns the renormalization of the protagonist's parents. There are also a few stray threads concerning the parents' paths to reintegrate. The initial concern here is to limit the transsexual metamorphism to the fewest individuals possible. 

Both parents were transsexual from the night they attempted to conceive an embodiment of the soul of creation and roused the demon against them. The demon eclipsed the woman, giving her the option of emerging later as an inner goddess. 

The attempt to conceive the embodiment of the soul of creation occurred when the protege and his accomplice were seventeen. For two years, the protege pursued the demon hoping to save his accomplice before the demon retaliated, overpowering and raping the protege once she was helpless.

The catatonic protege was mistaken for the accomplice and taken in by her family, helping her cope with the rape and pregnancy. When the child was born with the transsexual ability, the protege discovered that it could be controlled sympathetically in response to her own changes. 

Eventually, the demon tracked down the protege again and discovered the child concevied during the rape. The protege managed to slay it defending her child. Unfortunately, the demon simply possessed the protege, eclipsing her before attempting to assimilate the child's soul. 

In this instance, the protege is still in limbo when the demon penetrates the child's psyche. The child's psychic division is precipitated by her conditioned response to her parent's sex; the child was confronted in the flesh by the demon in her mother's form, but in the spirit the child was confronted by his father. 

The protege erects a prison for the demon in the child's mind that naturally falls into the rift that opens between the two halves of the child's psyche during the ordeal. The wards errected in the boy's mind left the girl's mind vulnerable to the demon within. 

By eclipsing the protege at this point, the only potential loose thread is tied up by following the original design in which the girl is the sole survivor of a massacre in which she held herself responsible for he death of her possessed mother. 

When the demon was caught in the trap, the girl lashed out with raw psychic power unlocked by the demon's probing. The damage was significant, but the stolen body expired because the trap that imprisoned the demon also cut off the protege's access to it. 

The death of the accomplice's body brings her torment by the lost souls to an end. The protege and his son encounter the accomplice in limbo and the three cross over the threshold together. Soon enough, they track down the traumatized girl and make new arrangements for her upbringing. The protege's accomplice becomes the girl's mentor, having escaped from limbo but still appearing seventeen years old and officially having died at the age of twenty-seven. 

The boy and his parents all have to manifest a new form reentering the demon's domain across the threshold, a reincarnation that purges them of the familiar curse and stripping them of the natural ability to change sex. The girl retains the ability in spite of the fact that her traumatic ordeal stripped her of the memory of it along with her other half. When she rediscovers the ability, it is a mysterious new ability to her she unconsciously understands should be kept secret. 

Because she was born with the familiar curse, she is a carrier and is able to reinfect her other half when they encounter each other again. The benefit of following this path is that it allows them to become intimate in a normal fashion better integrating her side of the demon within thread while laying the groundwork for his half, which recently emerged as a way to incorporate the avatars thread and the lovers' fusion thread. 


:: revision options :: 

The attempt to conceive the soul of creation, as presented, is not necessary. All that is required is that the maiden who is possessed by a demon bites a man, initiating their familiar bond. 

If there was no attempt to conceive the soul of creation, then the woman's possession would instead be engineered by the inner gods or the lost souls in an attempt to draw the demon down to Aeirn, where it could be confronted. 

The woman and man would thus be pawns in that scheme and the architects of that plan would hunt them down and attempt to rouse the demon to fulfill their plot. 

The man, transformed into a woman, is raped and impregnated by the demon. In the struggle, she slays the demon, forcing it to possess her body. The man joins the woman in limbo. 

At this point, the pair either cross the threshold on a mission to hunt the demon or join forces against the demon to seize joint possession of the man's ambisexual body. 

:: branch 1 ::

If the parents join forces against the demon to claim joint possession of the man's ambisexual body from within, at best, they eclipse the demon for seven years, at which point it slips past their guard and attempts to possess their child. They are eclipsed, and when the child is possessed, their divided state helps precipitate the child's division. 

:: branch 2 ::

If the parents cross the threshold and confront the demon externally in the domain, they would discover the demon was carrying their child -- and because the child's soul had embraced the demon, or at least part of the demon -- the goddess Aeai -- the child could potentially become the soul of creation. 

The demon originated in the domain of Aegis and the souls it captured gave rise to the domain of Aeirn in the demon's shadow. The demon incorporated part of itself into the system as the goddess Aeai. The purpose of the system the demon set up was to harvest souls of the Aegis. As players, souls of the Aegis unwittingly created new incarnations of themselves into which they are drawn at death. 

The point of collecting souls was to find a soul of its own; unfortunately, the demon was intent on assimilating the soul it sought, instead of allowing itself to be assimilated. The demon assumed that it could not be assimilated by a human mind, in spite of the fact that Aeai was incorporated as the child's angel when she was assimilated. 

The opening chapter in the story arc is the story of the assimilation of Aeai. As the part of the demon embraced by the child's soul, Aeai becomes self conscious as the mother of the first mortal incarnation of that soul, manifesting in the androgynous form abstracted from the two sexes her stolen body can assume -- the form of an angel. 

Aeai is assumed to be the demon when she is first confronted by the child's parents. When they realize that she is an incarnation of the goddess, their discovery is passed on to the lost souls and inner gods that conspired to summon the demon by their agents in the Academy. 

Aeai is also mistaken for a fallen angel by other fallen angels, fragments of the demon's psyche that had attached to stolen souls. On one hand, the lost souls and conspiring inner gods continue to pursue Aeai as the means to attack the demon, while on the other hand, Aeai is pursued by the fallen, demons of Aeirn, intent on forcing her into their ranks. 

The child's parents ally themselves with Aeai, helping to keep her adversaries from discovering her pregnancy or the true nature of her child. One way to discourage the cabal's interest in Aeai was to convince them that she was indeed a fallen angel. Unfortunately, this only encouraged the fallen to pursue the trio in order to recruit them into their web pacts and conspiracies. 

The cabal is a conspiracy of adversaries, each seeking to dominate and devour the demon in the hopes of becoming the soul of creation, each needing the help of others to make the demon vulnerable to such an assault. This makes for an unstable alliance of opportunistic rivals at best. They cooporate to create a situation to their advantage and then compete to exploit it. 
 
The cabal eventually decides to test the theory of Aeai's fall, moving against her to see if she retains a tie to the demon that can be used to provoke it into asserting itself. When this plot succeeds in arousing the demon, it tears into the conspiritors and eventually confronts the child. Aeai summons the parents to the child's aid, but their intervention has an unintended consequence. 

The demon's fixation on the child gave the survivors of its rampage a chance to slay it. The slayers saw it as an opportunity to drive the demon into a weaker vessel, unaware that the demon had willingly possessed the child. When they struck, they forced Aeai to dive into the child after the demon. The demon, seeing Aeai as no threat, focused on devouring the child's psyche. 

Aeai drew on the child's soul to oppose the demon, eclipsing the demon while the demon eclipsed the child. The parents entered limbo to protect the child there. Each parent provided the child a different focus; torn on either side between the parents and cut through the middle by the angel and demon, the child's psyche split. 

The child was divided into male and female aspects and this had the unexpected benefit of shattering the demon's mind. Aeai remained in possession of the child's body while the boy and girl are led by their parents across the threshold. The traumatic ordeal leaves each child with shattered memories and peices of the shattered demon. 

Aeai warn the parents that reuniting the two halves of the child would restore the demon, but in their divided state the boy and girl might assimilate the demon instead. They needed time to mature and become self-possessed before they could be reunited. The parents take on the roles of mother and father, taking the girl and boy respectively and going separate ways. 




