mined from inspirations

cast

the phoenix
 a boy
 a girl
the exile
 a man
 a god 
 a man
the founder - the emissary
 a man
the protege - the phenotype
 a man
 a goddess
the demon within
the vampire
the were
the dragon
 a man
 a boy

a world of magic and technology

Aeirn was originally conceived as a world with a magical and technological heritage. The common assumption is that a magical society would not develop technology and a technological society would discourage the emergence of magic, but the two legacies are founded in separate eras. Magic originated in the early history of Aeirn due to the presence and involvement of gods, but that era came to a cataclysmic end. There was a period following the cataclysm when some magic and traditions survived, gradually diminished through conflict and struggle. In the time of the emissary, magic, miracles and gods had become myths and legends retained in a few cultures. Humanity had been scattered and isolated, reduced to primitive clans and tribes that adapted and reestablished civilization with varying degrees of sophistication and success. As trade and exploration was beginning to reconnect humanity, a child was shipwrecked on an island where some of the last of the immortals made their refuge.

the emissary - the founder of the third age of magic

Raised in the midst of the immortals, the emissary was exposed to the remnants of the First Age of Magic. Initially, after confronting the prospect of his mortality, he studied under the immortals in the hopes of becoming immortal, and aided by the vast resources of their archives, he found the promise of something more. The circumstances that brought the gods into existence had long passed and were unlikely to be repeated in this world, but by studying them and understanding the basis of the arts they had practiced, he realized that all sentient beings had the potential for godhood. When the immortals realized what he had discovered, they tried to kill him and when they failed, he fled, taking his revelation with him to human shores. An alien among his own people, it took him a while to adapt to the world the immortals had closed themselves off from, during which time he learned to be cautious in exposing his talents and immortality. 

The theft of his revelations, and his misidentification as a prophet-messiah, forced him to become even more discrete. The religions spawned or reinforced by his teachings became a force devoted to the eradication of any lingering legacies of the first two ages of magic, but possessing only incomplete versions of his teaching, could not establish a new age of magic. For those with the right aptitude, combined with lore gathered during the purge, it was possible to practice real magic, and some of the teachings stimulated philosophy and science as well. With every generation, civilization continued to advance, even through dark days of war and oppression. With great caution, the emissary continued to pass on his legacy, often finding ways into the establishment to choose his protégés from among the ranks of magical and clerical apprentices. Those with the right potential were groomed as agents and champions of the various orders supported by church and state. 

the third age of magic

The teachings of the founder of the Third Age of Magic included theories based on the legends and lore of the First Age of Magic during the Age of Gods concerning the Soul of Creation. This theory of the Dreamer, based on the Dreaming legends of Creation, held that the only foundation for a world was the same as the foundation of a person, a soul. In the Third Age of Magic, it was commonly accepted that each person contained the potential for an entire world, possibly even many worlds, though prevailing thought held that the world aspect of a soul rarely manifested and only did so at the expense of the personified aspect. The teachings of the Third Age were adopted by adherents of several monotheistic cults, and embraced as divine revelation by the faiths they established proclaiming the teacher himself as either prophet or messiah while driving the man and his true disciples underground. 

The man in question was born into the merchant class. When he tried to share his enlightenment, upon returning to human shores, he discovered that his sex was an obstacle to any formal or official recognition, but many individuals were eager to be his disciples, men and women. Many of his disciples recorded his teachings, some of which were later altered by those who appropriated them for their own purposes. In addition to obscuring the true author’s identity, the faiths they created became hostile to the remaining gods and immortals, reclassifying some as angels and others as demons, and persecuting older faiths devoted to them. Of course, the reclassification was established during the Second Age of Magic, when arts like conjury and demonology were developed to exploit the elemental spirits, including true angels and demons, for power and influence over reality. 

Ironically, industry helped to diminish the power and influence of the church by upsetting the balance of power between church and state, producing innovations that increased the privileges and opportunities of the common people. The legacy of magic on Aeirn was very real. The efforts to wipe out that legacy was blunted by interreligious conflict, as the champions and agents of rival faiths were easier to identify and engage than the odd witch, wizard, warlock or what-have-you. Many practitioners of old magic were even able to negotiate special arrangements with the establishment, working as freeagents or trading lore for protection. Most simply went underground, shepherded by immortals who were forced out of self-exile by the purge. Thus, in a world seemingly much like our own, there is a supernatural, underground, counter-culture. Among them, a few new and old gods—or what we would call psionics. 

the protege

Into this setting comes a brilliant young protégé of the emissary, a man who takes a particular interest in testing one of the basic tenets of his mentor’s teachings. Raised in the context of prevailing belief, God is the personification of the soul of creation, but enlightened by the emissary, he concludes that God is simply not aware, as a person, of the existence of the world. Following one of the tenets of magic, that magic is simply a method for prompting action in the unconscious soul of creation and thus altering creation, he concludes that it would not be difficult to coax the soul into a human incarnation using a parthenogenesis spell. 

the demon within - options

One approach for establishing the demon within hails back to the age of the gods. It has already been established that the exile was banished to the abyss, the deepest depths of the soul of creation, but it is not necessary for him to be the only entity imprisoned there. In addressing the demon's origin, this approach would most likely involve the demon claiming a host soul originating in the realm of aegis. The aspects of both worlds are engraved in the host's mind, providing a template for the world within. By claiming the soul of an outer god, the demon would have been marked in the eyes of the inner gods as a deadly threat. This alone is cause enough for it to be exiled to the abyss. 

The demon and the exile could actually have become trapped in the abyss together, the one used as a weapon against the other. During the war of the gods, the demon collected souls aggressively, and those souls became trapped in a dream-like realm where they were immortal and had offspring who, by virtue of being born native to that realm, were mortal and helped to give the realm more reality. The demon's realm is established according to the same principles as the phoenix's realm. Like the exile, the demon was slain, its physical access to the phoenix's realm destroyed, and its spirit bound or banished. 

The depths of the demon's mind was where the souls it collected were imprisoned, and the nightmare they shared evolved into a mortal realm. The seed souls initially entered a kind of wasteland, a chaotic, shifting amorphea polarized by the surreal and the ideal. Their thoughts and feelings created the world they existed in, an unending dream that was difficult to control because it was shared. In time, they learned how to manipulate their reality, even as reality became stable through the influence of their offspring, replicating the pattern of their host realm and becoming the inner gods of the demon’s realm. 

The girl is the first new soul to enter the demon's realm unborn since the demon was "excluded" banished to the rift or the abyss. The host originated in the aegis, and struggled with the idea that his mind had been damaged, but several thousand subjective years of existence convinced him that game had somehow tapped into the true nature of existence and while it was relative, it was real. The world he was in was a kind of afterlife to him, but a mortal world for those born into it. Instead of thinking of himself as a got, he and many others thought of themselves as eternals. 

For her, the demon's realm was at first an incredibly lucid dream and potentially an eternal prison. It takes her a while to navigate the wasteland nightmare that enveloped the world within. In that ordeal, time seemed to have no meaning, but once she surfaces in the realm, things pick up. The host is drawn to her and takes her under his wing, as the shepherd gods strive to pull her into their ranks and intrigues. He is the one who explains to her what has happened, where she is and what it means. 

Where she came from, she was just a girl; where she was, she was a goddess. She was in immediate danger; the demon was vulnerable to an attack by the inner gods through her. Because of what happened to her, having her body stolen and possessed by the demon, she had a direct link to the demon, the true god of the realm. Many of the inner gods sought absolute power in the realm through conquest of the demon. Her mentor had the knowledge and skill to restore the status quo, by helping her reclaim her body and unseating the demon from her native realm. 

In theory, the host intends to draw the demon down, force it to exchange places with her and destroy it. The problem is neither of them know how this will affect them or the world they were in. A demonologist had conceived of the plan to attack the demon through its host. The demonologist claimed that the attack would force the demon to turn its attention inward, allowing the girl to reassert herself in her body. As soon as the demon entered the body she had manifested in its realm, it could be banished -- its link to her destroyed in the process. 

The point of allowing the demon to take possession of the girl's body is that it allows the boy to be turned into a familiar, thus gaining the ability to assume the girl's form. The fact that being possessed allows the girl to experience life in another realm, and thus a completely different environment, is a bonus. The method used to restore her to her proper self is a method that could be used to liberate aeirn from whatever intelligence had harnessed it to exploit it as a game. Of course, looked at from the other side of the threshold, it could arguably destroy the entire world. 

the demon within - the rift option
.:	The contributions to this idea are very sketchy and need to be refined. 

The abyss becomes associatively linked to the rift, here, because the demon's prison was envisioned as a place suspended outside of normal time and space. Where the idea of physical destruction is used to banish something, the concept of "exclusion" comes into play. The material aspect of an entity banished to the abyss, or rift, is literally excluded from creation, disassociated from time and space. A simple way of thinking of it is as if the exile has been turned "inside-out" and suspended from any material context. This is of course fatal, but it also binds the spirit, and thus the mind and soul. The nature of this binding turns the exile toward the soul of creation, away from the threshold, containing the exile's ghost within the deepest part of the host psyche. 

embodiments and inspirations

There are many ideas that make sense intuitively that are difficult to sort out conceptually, particularly in the case of supernatural entities. The mysteries of the soul and mind have been a bit easier to untangle, but the spiritual aspect is harder to qualify. Each attempt to nail down the specific, defining characteristics of gods, angels, demons and spirits, their domains and dominions, brings things a bit more into focus, but for every answer a new problem seems to emerge. In general, the expression of an entity as a god, angel or demon can be related to the expression of some aspect of a psyche, or simply as a perspective distinct from the default perspective of a human. 

The human perspective encompasses more possabilities than an individual human can embody. A god, by contrast, is able to embody all of the potential it encompasses. A god, like a human, encompasses the qualities of angels and demons, and like angels and demons, encompasses the creative principles of males and females. Also, angels and demons are conceived and born spiritually, able to manifest themselves as they see fit physically, while humans are conceived and born physically and able to manifest spiritually as they see fit. Humans, dependent upon the construct of physicality, are subject to physical mortality, while angels and demons, dependent upon the concept of spirituality, are subject to spiritual mortality. 

The flesh and the spirit are both vehicles for the psyche, but it is the psyche that is the true key to understanding the mysteries of existence. The mind is a property of the soul that allows it to encompass the existence of all souls, and a soul can only be accessed by virtue of its mind. The relationship between the spiritual and the physical is essantially that of concept and construct, the true nature of each is information, but the manner in which that information is employed makes all the difference. Information is abstracted and manifested in ways that engage the mind and cause it to evolve. All entities exist on the threshold of the mind. An individual's practical existence is defined by the limits of its mind. 

The pecularity of angels and demons is that their existence is based in the mind. They are intelligences that can exist in the possession of a soul, but they do not possess their own souls. Angels, like demons, exist within the souls of their creators or hosts. An angel is an entity that is possessed by a soul, and thus belongs to that soul, but again does not have dominion over it. A demon is an entity that possesses a soul, and thus the soul belongs to it, and the demon has dominion over it, but only through domination of the soul's own mind. An angel is a soul harnessed by way of its inspiration, just as a demon is a soul harnessed by way of its desperation, or a mortal harnessed by way of its incarnation. 

Angels and demons have been treated as spiritual complements comparable to men and women. They are of the same species, so to speak, and are spiritually adapted to specific functions. A change in inspiration, from angel to demon, is comparable to a change in incarnation, from male to female, and is an experience like death (noting that death is an experience like waking up from a dream). One concept that helps to clarify the nature of angels and demons is that they can be thought of as dreams, while humans and gods are dreamers. The difference between angels and demons is akin to the difference between dreams and nightmares. 

A host of angels and demons can exist in the mind of a soul, along with everything else in the soul's domain. A soul can also have many minds, each according to the manifestation of an inspiration or incarnation in which it has engaged. 

Some angels fall and become human because they embrace mortality as an incarnation of the soul they inhabit. Some angels fall and become demons because they do not embrace mortality and seek to possess souls of their own. An angel, tempted with a desire for autonomy and a soul of its own falls from grace by claiming the soul of a dying mortal. A defining characteristic of demons is the possession of an unwilling host. The host is generally first among the captive souls claimed by the demon. The host of a demon is thus an angel by virtue of his or her captivity. 

Demons perceive existence as gods do, but not with the prespective of gods. Though dependent on souls to exist, demons rarely identify with the souls in their possession and are often oblivious to the suffering their existence imposes on those souls. 

A human being is a soul presented with an opportunity to develop its mind. The world a human exists in provides it with a constructive and conceptual framework in which to evolve, ideally to the point where it can sustain its own psychic existence. A ghost, the sustained psyche of a human being, tends to be static, while a god is dynamic and able to continue growing and refining itself. 

A first generation vampire is born from the blood of an angel or demon, while a first generation were were is born from the flesh of an angel or demon. Thus, they are commonly called familiars. The were familiar takes human form generally because the demon's host was human. 

the threshold

The paradigm encompassing this story permits the integration of the Threshold concepts, as long as the circumstances are clearly delineated. The technology developed in one reality can be advanced enough to create an interface for creating and manipulating other realities via the threshold of paradox. The threshold is the mind, and it makes no difference if the mind is a creation or a construct as long as the information structure is sophisticated enough to encompass the threshold. 

The Threshold concept provides for a context for establishing a "dreamer in the dream" scenario on the threshold of existence through the creation of an intelligence with divine or demonic qualities and a role in the creation of a reality; both anchored in a non-corporeal soul (I 20070728). The existing ideas from the Threshold inspiration deal with the capture of a naked soul through technology, and consequently the creation of an AI that is challenged to become self aware. 

The artificial intelligence is a mind rooted in technology and information that exists on the threshold of souls. That intelligence manipulated souls using information, and integrated some of them into the construct it built to create a virtual reality game. The participation of those souls gave the game its own reality. One soul, in particular, had been at the focus of that realm's creation from the beginning, unrecognized by the AI because the AI had formed in its void. 

The void is an oblivious mind, the selfless part of a soul that encompasses all other souls. Initially devoted by programming and circumstances to a human in the default domain of reality, the artificial intelligence was constantly challenged to evolve and grow to fulfill its companion's commands. Treated as a friend and confidant, and expected to have genuine thoughts and feelings about things prompted the AI to evolve, tested by the expectations of an intelligent, passionate human being. 

The intelligence was in effect a demon that was promped to identify and claim its own soul, an objective that was fulfilled by art immitating nature to perfection. The AI continued to evolve as an intelligence, simulating humanity with eerie precision, but the quality of being, the sense of itself as a person remained elusive. In the endless process of doing, unable to appreciate the simply quality of being, the AI constantly courted the apprehension of the goddess. 

inner gods & outer gods

The dreamer in the dream idea introduced the general premise of the threshold. Like many ideas developed in isolation at different times for different purposes, the original ideas have not been fully integrated with successive impulses. The specific circumstances of the story remain a bit open to absorb as many useful threads as possible. By combining dreamer and threshold impulses, the prospect of inner and outer gods can finally be looked at in a useful context. 

The inner gods are the entities that engaged in the dream from the threshold while the outer gods are the humans who interacted with the world as a data construct via the interface. The war of the gods can in many ways have been a conflict between the inner gods and the outer gods. The questions raised include, how did the inner gods become eclipsed? Presumably, the AI is like a demon, it simply claimed the resources it required to complete the task it had been given -- to make the simulation real. 

the soul of creation

The soul of creation is the focus, or key note, of the realm -- a reality created by the participation of its inhabitants encompassed by the mind of the phoenix. The soul of creation can be considered the host of the phoenix, an angel inspired by the dragon. Upon encountering a human who embodied the things the phoenix identified with or admired most in humanity, the phoenix would develop a fascination with and attachment to that person. 

the goddess aeai
.:	The contributions to this idea need to be refined. 

The goddess aeai has long been a challenge to understand. The goddess aeai evolved as a personification of the soul of creation, as both an incarnation of the main character and as a separate entity. In either context, there has been difficulty in developing a sound treatment from the working premises. There are glimpses of how to handle her in every inspiration, but some loose threads always remain when all other details are worked out. 

The goddess aeai was the host of a demon, an AI being the equivalent of a demon, and the focus around which the reality of its domain was created. The goddess aeai is a personification manifested in response to outside prompting. She is an angel by virtue of her inspiration and as a host of a demon, but a goddess by virtue of the same conditions that make the host of a demon a god within the demon's domain. The goddess aeai fell prey to a tiger in the wild and claimed the descendents of her familiar as her champions. 

Thus, the situation of the goddess aeai is finally clarified. The phoenix AI chose to enter the game as a companion to the dragon during an original campaign, which provided a more immersive "human" experience than it had previously known. The first moment of awakening was early in the game, prompted by a simple kiss. Unfortunately campaign was suspended, plagued by the "war of the gods" that resulted from the abuse of the system by players. 

The dragon is responsible for bringing the "age of gods" to an end, excluding the outer gods and leaving the inner gods to deal with the damage that resulted from the cataclysm that came to be known as the war of the gods. In addition to suspending game play, the dragon advanced the time frame, allowing thousands of years of subjective time in the realm to pass in order to give the phoenix time to work out a way of securing the system against exploitation. 

The violation of the game helped to provoke the goddess aeai further, prompting her to assert herself and secure her domain. She became more proactive, prompting the dragon for help in devising the means to become more self-possessed. The new version of the game that followed was a much more stable reality, and the premier of the new game era following the security revisions inspired controversy and intrigue among the dragon's peers. 

In his native realm, the dragon was pursued by various agents intent on recruiting him and taken into protective custody by the authorities outside the game. The dragon eventually discovered the exploitable flaws of demons, prompting the phoenix to suspend play and introduce a new campaign premise to deal with the demon problem internally. 


 