20070702

A thought to recover existing material, combining elements from Naked Dancer and Unpromised.

In both stories, she has been displaced from her normal life and must find her place in a world of magic, technology and the collision of magical and technological cultures. 

In each story, she is being initiated into the divine. 

The point of reconciliation would be determining what version of the conceptual loop to use. An early version was based on an attempt of the goddess to take on human form by choosing a host mother and being conceived parthenogenically. In that version, the goddess was forced to take possession of her host to save her life, causing her to be displaced into the child’s body. 

A more recent idea was to have the human incarnation host her own birth, drawn back in time for that purpose. This idea has developed in concert with an idea concerning a man’s efforts to identify the soul of creation and call it into human form. This easily ties into the ideas for the eye of paradox/eve of paradox variation on the creation of the rift. 

Taking that as a premise, and incorporating a few more of the older ideas, the result is thus: 

The teachings of the founder of the Third Age of Magic included theories based on the legends and lore of the First Age of Magic during the Age of Gods concerning the Soul of Creation. This theory of the Dreamer, based on the Dreaming legends of Creation, held that the only foundation for a world was the same as the foundation of a person, a soul. In the Third Age of Magic, it was commonly accepted that each person contained the potential for an entire world, possibly even many worlds, though prevailing thought held that the world aspect of a soul rarely manifested and only did so at the expense of the personified aspect. The teachings of the Third Age were adopted by adherents of several monotheistic cults, and embraced as divine revelation by the faiths they established proclaiming the teacher himself as either prophet or messiah while driving the man and his true disciples underground. 

A minor variant, the man in question was actually a woman, who tried to share her enlightenment upon returning to human shores. There she discovered that her sex was an obstacle to any public recognition, but many individuals were eager to be her disciples, men and women. Some of her disciples recorded her teachings, which were later altered by those who appropriated them for their own purposes. In addition to obscuring the true author’s identity, the faiths they created became hostile to the remaining gods and immortals, reclassifying some as angels and others as demons, and persecuting older faiths devoted to them. Of course, the reclassification was established during the Second Age of Magic, when arts like conjury and demonology were developed to exploit the elemental spirits, including true angels and demons, for power and influence over reality. The gods of the First Age had descended from such spirits, by way of various physical-spiritual unions during the evolution of the dream. 

The first conceptions of Aeirn was of a world with a magical and technological heritage. The difficulty that followed was concerned with the idea that a magical society would not develop technology and a technological society would discourage the emergence of magic, but the conflict becomes less critical if the two societies are founded in separate eras. A significant difference in the early history of Aeirn is the actual presence and involvement of gods, but that era came to a cataclysmic end. There was a period following the cataclysm when some magic and traditions survived, gradually diminished through conflict and struggle. In the time of the emissary, magic, miracles and gods had become myths and legends retained in a few cultures. Humanity had been scattered and isolated, reduced to primitive clans and tribes that adapted and reestablished civilization with varying degrees of sophistication and success. As trade and exploration was beginning to reconnect humanity, a child was shipwrecked on an island where some of the last of the immortals made their refuge.

Raised in the midst of the immortals, the emissary was exposed to the remnants of the First Age of Magic. Initially, after confronting the prospect of her mortality, she studied under the immortals in the hopes of becoming immortal, and aided by the vast resources of their archives, she found the promise of something more. The circumstances that brought the gods into existence had long passed and were unlikely to be repeated in this world, but by studying them and understanding the basis of the arts they had practiced, she realized that all sentient beings had the potential for godhood. When the immortals realized what she had discovered, they tried to kill her and when they failed, she fled, taking her revelation with her to human shores. An alien among her own people, it took her a while to adapt to the world the immortals had closed themselves off from, during which time she learned to be cautious in exposing her talents and immortality. 

The theft of her revelations, and her distorted career as a messiah, forced her to become even more discrete. The religions spawned or reinforced by her teachings became a force devoted to the eradication of any lingering legacies of the first two ages of magic, but possessing only incomplete versions of her teaching, could not establish a new age of magic. For those with the right aptitude, combined with lore gathered during the purge, it was possible to practice real magic, and some of the teachings stimulated philosophy and science as well. With every generation, civilization continued to advance, even through dark days of war and oppression. With great caution, the emissary continued to pass on her legacy, often finding ways into the establishment to choose her protégés from among the ranks of clerical apprentices. Those with the right potential were groomed as agents and champions of the various orders supported by church and state. 

Ironically, industry helped to diminish the power and influence of the church by upsetting the balance of power between church and state, producing innovations that increased the privileges and opportunities of the common people. The various examples of Earth have their reflections on Aeirn. The significant difference is that legacy of magic on Aeirn was very real. The efforts to wipe out that legacy was blunted by interreligious conflict, as the champions and agents of rival faiths were easier to identify and engage than the odd witch, wizard, warlock or what-have-you. Many practitioners of old magic were even able to negotiate special arrangements with the establishment, working as freeagents or trading lore for protection. Most simply went underground, shepherded by the immortals forced out of their self-exile by the purge. Thus, in a world seemingly much like our own, there is a supernatural, underground, counter-culture. Among them, a few new and old gods—or what we would call psionics. 

Into this setting comes a brilliant young protégé of the emissary, a man who takes a particular interest in testing one of the basic tenets of his mentor’s teachings. Raised in the context of prevailing belief, God is the personification of the soul of creation, but enlightened by the emissary, he concludes that God is simply not aware, as a person, of the existence of the world. Following one of the tenets of magic, that it is a method for prompting action in the unconscious soul of creation and thus altering creation, he designs a spell to prompt it to personify itself. He succeeds in provoking a response, but there is an unintended side effect to prompting the Dreamer to wake up in the Dream. Confronted with his intent, the soul is forced to create a human personification of itself, and finding none in the past or present or implicit future, it creates a paradox. 

A personification of the soul of creation did not exist at the point it was called for, and a soul need a certain amount of time to become a person. It was not enough to manifest a body, the invocation called for a mind, specifically a human mind, to seat the soul in that body. That was a process that involved conception, gestation and birth, in addition to a number of years to mature and evolve as a person. That much could be gained at a different time, a time as yet undefined and in the future. As the solution was worked out and simplified, the result was a girl, who would come from the future and bear a child that would grow up to be her, a simple creation of one cell, time for it to develop into a woman who, at a different place in time, impregnated by that seed, fulfilled this act of creation without violating the impulse that prompted it. 

The paradox can be subtle, instead of disrupting the entire world. Alternatively, the paradox can be a remedy to the creation of the rift, a magical cataslysm. The precedent for that is easily found in the historical tensions and conflict preceeding. The man who prompts the soul of creation is conceptually tied to a character responsible for finding a way to arrest the rift. Having this set during the cataclysm can introduce some space between the two characters at the beginning, following one brief instant of confrontation. The rift serves to bring in outside elements, and it can even be established that the story deals with those parts of reality that are drawn into the rift. Observing the general premise of following the unwitting goddess, the rift is something she’s grown up with, and which she is drawn into unexpectedly to fulfill her destiny.  





