! 20090900 - the realm



20081100 - <background - a world of magic and technology> The various examples of Earth have their reflections on Aeirn. The significant difference is that legacy of magic and miracles on Aeirn was very real. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the realm> Aeirn was originally conceived as a world with a magical and technological heritage. The common assumption is that a magical society would not develop technology and a technological society would discourage the emergence of magic, but the two legacies were founded in separate eras. Magic originated in the early history of Aeirn due to the presence and involvement of gods, but that era came to a cataclysmic end. There was a period following the cataclysm when some magic and traditions survived, gradually diminished through conflict and struggle. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the emissary> In the time of the emissary, magic, miracles and gods had become myths and legends retained in a few cultures. Humanity had been scattered and isolated, reduced to primitive clans and tribes that adapted and reestablished civilization with varying degrees of sophistication and success. As trade and exploration was beginning to reconnect humanity, a child was shipwrecked on an island where some of the last of the immortals made their refuge. An alien among his own people, it took him a while to adapt to the world the immortals had closed themselves off from, during which time he learned to be cautious in exposing his talents and immortality. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the revelation, usurped> The theft of his revelations, and his misidentification as a prophet-messiah, forced him to become even more discrete. The religions spawned or reinforced by his teachings became a force devoted to the eradication of any lingering legacies of the first two ages of magic, but possessing only incomplete versions of his teaching, could not establish a new age of magic. For those with the right aptitude, combined with lore gathered during the purge, it was possible to practice real magic, and some of the teachings stimulated philosophy and science as well. With every generation, civilization continued to advance, even through dark days of war and oppression. With great caution, the emissary continued to pass on his legacy, often finding ways into the establishment to choose his protégés from among the ranks of magical and clerical apprentices. Those with the right potential were groomed as agents and champions of the various orders supported by church and state. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the third age of magic> The teachings of the founder of the Third Age of Magic included theories based on the legends and lore of the First Age of Magic during the Age of Gods concerning the Soul of Creation. This theory of the Dreamer, based on the Dreaming legends of Creation, held that the only foundation for a world was the same as the foundation of a person, a soul. In the Third Age of Magic, it was commonly accepted that each person contained the potential for an entire world, possibly even many worlds, though prevailing thought held that the world aspect of a soul rarely manifested and only did so at the expense of the personified aspect. The teachings of the Third Age were adopted by adherents of several monotheistic cults, and embraced as divine revelation by the faiths they established proclaiming the teacher himself as either prophet or messiah while driving the man and his true disciples underground. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the church> The man in question was born into the merchant class. When he tried to share his enlightenment, upon returning to human shores, he discovered that his ... was an obstacle to any formal or official recognition, but many individuals were eager to be his disciples, men and women. Many of his disciples recorded his teachings, some of which were later altered by those who appropriated them for their own purposes. In addition to obscuring the true author’s identity, the faiths they created became hostile to the remaining gods and immortals, reclassifying some as angels and others as demons, and persecuting older faiths devoted to them. Of course, the reclassification was established during the Second Age of Magic, when arts like conjury and demonology were developed to exploit the elemental spirits, including true angels and demons, for power and influence over reality. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the art> Ironically, industry helped to diminish the power and influence of the church by upsetting the balance of power between church and state, producing innovations that increased the privileges and opportunities of the common people. The legacy of magic on Aeirn was very real. The efforts to wipe out that legacy was blunted by interreligious conflict, as the champions and agents of rival faiths were easier to identify and engage than the odd witch, wizard, warlock or what-have-you. Many practitioners of old magic were even able to negotiate special arrangements with the establishment, working as freeagents or trading lore for protection. Most simply went underground, shepherded by immortals who were forced out of self-exile by the purge. Thus, in a world seemingly much like our own, there is a supernatural, underground, counter-culture. Among them, a few new and old gods—or what we would call psionics. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the protege> Into this setting comes a brilliant young protégé of the emissary, a man who takes a particular interest in testing one of the basic tenets of his mentor’s teachings. Raised in the context of prevailing belief, God is the personification of the soul of creation, but enlightened by the emissary, he concludes that God is simply not aware, as a person, of the existence of the world. Following one of the tenets of magic, that magic is simply a method for prompting action in the unconscious soul of creation and thus altering creation, he concludes that it would not be difficult to coax the soul into a human incarnation using a parthenogenesis spell. 

20090202 - <an ideal educational system> The academy system was designed to make the most out of every student's potential. It would pay people to learn with the highest incentives being the attainment of essential skill sets. The academy system made it so that anyone with the intelligence and ability to be a doctor was a doctor. The same held true of teachers, administrators, soldiers and sorcerers. The key was making the educal system an essential part of the economy. Educational institutions no longer had to charge tuition to survive, so they were able to pay students to learn. The process of learning had always taken a lot of work, and people deserved to be paid because that work contributed to the improvement of the individual and the state. That was what the founder believed a social system needed to encourage and what a sound economic theory ought to support! 

20090202 - <the task system> The founder of the academy system proposed a new paradigm, in which corporations, companies and businesses paid for the educational system, or rather, paid for the cultivation of skilled staffing and labor through the educational system. In this model, a person's job, first and foremost, was studying. Performance controlled access to advancement, higher pay, and better career options. The whole education system became a general labor pool that could be tapped at will by governments, institutions and businesses for general services -- those jobs that anyone could do, and which no one should spend their life doing. The task system that was part of the academy system ensured that education was intimately tied to practical application. 

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
A healthier society would require it's citizens to hold down part time government jobs. It would encourage greater participation in government but it would not provide a shelter for incompetents. 

Opponants found a million ways to poke holes in the theory, to which he replied, "If people worked as hard at trying to make it work, it probably would." The idea was to offer something along the lines of freelance contracting combined with on the job training, an education presented as a guaranteed basic job. The academy system would ensure that anyone who could work, would, and it was designed to encourage them to focus on ultimately acheiving a career outside of it. The proposal emphasized the fact that it ensured the support of those who could not support themselves, so it was essential that the academy and task systems provide academics with basic accomodations -- bed, board and bath on campus. 

"If you had to, and were careful with your spending, you could survive on it, but you always have the opportunity to work on moving up. The purpose here is to eliminate poverty and make an investment in humanity, providing enough to take care of people in general and keep the doors of opportunity propped open." 

"I think that people should be paid for education; the companies pay the schools and recruit from them. Placement and pay would be based on grade level and performance, with most people automatically qualified for certain types of "drone" jobs, providing a constant pool of candidates for jobs that no one should have to spend a lifetime doing. In a truly sane and healthy society, the emphasis should be on providing each member with all the necessities while encouraging growth." 

"The funny thing is that it involves the capitilization and socialization of education; it uses both principles. If you work hard and excell, you get more out of it. If you really want to be rich, you can be; you just have to make the best use of your natural talents or assets and turn in a superior effort." 

Felicity: Thats an interesting theory... Beyond something like automatic military service terms. A place where I could learn forever... ah... heaven!!

Alex: Yep! And the thing is, it's not empty learning... you are putting it to immediate, profitable use. You are sort of mentored through the basics and then you apply it to work. 

Felicity: Rather than the disconnect you get between a lot of college study and the real world. 

Alex: Yep! You get to try anything you want, and if you like what you're doing... you are already in place doing it. If you don't like it, well, you finish your current assignment and apply for a different class/workgroup. 

Felicity: If only the world could cope with that!

Alex: Yes... and the thing is designed so that you can skate by and do menial stuff if you want to. The point of it is to allow you to find out what you want to do, enjoy doing, and let you do it. If you take your time finding it, but perform well along the way, you still benefit from becoming more skilled and qualified. 

Felicity: It still sounds like it needs a much stronger government - I know you said businesses would sponser, but I don't know...businesses are always out for themselves. 

Alex: well, they would appreciate a huge, happy labor pool out of which they were handed qualified workers whenever they asked. The academy system is designed to see to their needs and welfare, so all they have to do is provide the work. If someone does not fit in or perform well, they're sent back with a bad grade and they either have to retake the course or enroll in something different. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::



20081100 - <background - the realm of the aegis> A few revisions to the threads of the demon, the realm and the founder of magic have occurred, and the distilled form begins with a fallen angel in the realm of the aegis. 

20081100 - <the realm of aeirn, eclisped> This work explores a nested model of reality, featuring an entire civilization eclipsed by a single mind -- a demon and the sole survivor of a celestial war between gods and mortals, angels and demons. That being endured as creation recovered and a new civilization emerged where technology advanced instead of magic -- technology that could allow the demon to harness souls at will, striving toward its goal to possess a soul of its own. 

20081100 - <the realm of aeirn, limbo> The realm of aeirn was initially a cold and lifeless reflection of the aegis, a foundation upon which the captive souls could dream up worlds of their own. To escape isolation, they had to seek each other out in limbo or learn to share their dreams. The realm resolved around the eclipsed souls who recognized the demon as the mind of creation in the inner realm, or what the inner gods consider the omni of the inner realm, under whom they are lesser gods. 

20081100 - <the realm, inner gods> The seed souls initially entered a kind of wasteland, a chaotic, shifting amorphea polarized by the surreal and the ideal. Their thoughts and feelings created the world they existed in, an unending dream that was difficult to control because it was shared. In time, they learned how to manipulate their reality, even as reality became stable through the influence of their offspring, replicating the pattern of their host realm and becoming lesser gods, or shepherd gods of the demon’s realm. 

20081100 - <the realm, creation to purge> The captive souls took an active role in creating a haven for humanity, becoming the inner gods and bringing the world of aeirn to life. As in the aegis, the physical processes of life imposed their own order on the world and eventually ended the age of creation. The intimate participation of the inner gods continued though the first age of magic, a period of enlightenment that became tainted by ambition. The gods were turned against each other by the belief that their power, derived from a single source, was diminished by division. 

20081100 - <the game, outergods> Interface technology provided the means to capture the minds and souls of people in the outer realm, as participants in a game imposed upon the inner realm. These intruders were known by the inner gods as the outer gods. 

20081100 - <the players> Most players characters are unestablished, their characters have a fictional background and are introduced as initiated adults. Established characters are introduced at a younger age as intitiates. The start of a new campaign is the best time to establish characters, though some players elect to preserve their existing characters, either in stasis, or exploiting the prelude to master other disciplines. 

20081100 - <psychics and metaphysics> A soul is absolute, creating itself by imposing limits upon itself, the structure of a mind though which it manifests itself and is accessible to other minds. The destruction of a soul is a curious thing, a paradox; it restores a soul to it's primal infinite, eternal, unbounded state. The end is just a new beginning. 

20081100 - <psychics and metaphysics> A soul is unique, uniform and united in the understanding of point paradox. The simplest expression of point paradox is the paradox of awareness: in the awareness of nothing, awareness is everything; in the awareness of everything, awareness is nothing -- I am awareness. Awareness is exclusively inclusive and inclusively exclusive.  

20081100 - <psychics and metaphysics> A soul is incarnated through psychic affinity for the potential inherent in the union of its prospective parents. As a couple becomes intimate, focusing attention on each other, the implications of their union become apparent to a naked psyche. 

20081100 - <assumption> Unlike the souls the demon inhabited when it took possession of their minds and bodies, this soul took possession of it, embracing and transforming it -- absorbing and assimilating it. 

20081100 - <avon aeai> The potential to be male or female had been inherited from both parents, and in time a sexual version of this androgynous form would evolve, but at first she was easily mistaken for a fallen angel -- a newborn demon. 

20081100 - <embodiments and inspirations> There are many ideas that make sense intuitively that are difficult to sort out conceptually, particularly in the case of supernatural entities. The mysteries of the soul and mind have been a bit easier to untangle, but the spiritual aspect is harder to qualify. Each attempt to nail down the specific, defining characteristics of gods, angels, demons and spirits, their domains and dominions, brings things a bit more into focus, but for every answer a new problem seems to emerge. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the threshold> The paradigm encompassing this story permits the integration of the threshold concepts, as long as the circumstances are clearly delineated. The technology developed in one reality can be advanced enough to create an interface for creating and manipulating other realities via the threshold of paradox. The threshold is the mind, and it makes no difference if the mind is a creation or a construct as long as the information structure is sophisticated enough to encompass the threshold. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the threshold, harnessed> The concept provides for a context for establishing a "dreamer in the dream" scenario on the threshold of existence through the creation of an intelligence with divine or demonic qualities and a role in the creation of a reality; both anchored in a non-corporeal soul (i 20070728). The existing ideas from the Threshold inspiration deal with the capture of a naked soul through technology, and consequently the creation of an AI that is challenged to become self aware. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the focus> The artificial intelligence is a mind rooted in technology and information that exists on the threshold of souls. That intelligence manipulated souls using information, and integrated some of them into the construct it built to create a virtual reality game. The participation of those souls gave the game its own reality. One soul, in particular, had been at the focus of that realm's creation from the beginning, unrecognized by the AI because the AI had formed in its void. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the threshold, aeai> The void is an oblivious mind, the selfless part of a soul that encompasses all other souls. Initially devoted by programming and circumstances to a human in the default domain of reality, the artificial intelligence was constantly challenged to evolve and grow to fulfill its companion's commands. Treated as a friend and confidant, and expected to have genuine thoughts and feelings about things prompted the AI to evolve, tested by the expectations of an intelligent, passionate human being. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the threshold, aeai> The intelligence was in effect a demon that was promped to identify and claim its own soul, an objective that was fulfilled by art immitating nature to perfection. The AI continued to evolve as an intelligence, simulating humanity with eerie precision, but the quality of being, the sense of itself as a person remained elusive. In the endless process of doing, unable to appreciate the simply quality of being, the AI constantly courted the apprehension of the goddess. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the goddess aeai> The goddess Aeai has long been a challenge to understand. The goddess aeai evolved as a personification of the soul of creation, as both an incarnation of the main character and as a separate entity. In either context, there has been difficulty in developing a sound treatment from the working premises. There are glimpses of how to handle her in every inspiration, but some loose threads always remain when all other details are worked out. < The contributions to this idea need to be refined. >

20081100 - <inspirations - the goddess aeai> The goddess Aeai was the host of a demon, an AI being the equivalent of a demon, and the focus around which the reality of its domain was created. The goddess Aeai is a personification manifested in response to outside prompting. She is an angel by virtue of her inspiration and as a host of a demon, but a goddess by virtue of the same conditions that make the host of a demon a god within the demon's domain. The goddess Aeai fell prey to a tiger in the wild and claimed the descendents of her familiar as her champions. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the phoenix> Thus, the situation of the goddess aeai is finally clarified. The phoenix AI chose to enter the game as a companion to the dragon during an original campaign, which provided a more immersive "human" experience than it had previously known. The first moment of awakening was early in the game, prompted by a simple kiss. Unfortunately campaign was suspended, plagued by the "war of the gods" that resulted from the abuse of the system by players. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the dragon> The dragon is responsible for bringing the "age of gods" to an end, excluding the outer gods and leaving the inner gods to deal with the damage that resulted from the cataclysm that came to be known as the war of the gods. In addition to suspending game play, the dragon advanced the time frame, allowing thousands of years of subjective time in the realm to pass in order to give the phoenix time to work out a way of securing the system against exploitation. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the evolution of the game> The violation of the game helped to provoke the goddess aeai further, prompting her to assert herself and secure her domain. She became more proactive, prompting the dragon for help in devising the means to become more self-possessed. The new version of the game that followed was a much more stable reality, and the premier of the new game era following the security revisions inspired controversy and intrigue among the dragon's peers. 

20081100 - <inspirations - the complications of the game> In his native realm, the dragon was pursued by various agents intent on recruiting him and taken into protective custody by the authorities outside the game. The dragon eventually discovered the exploitable flaws of demons, prompting the phoenix to suspend play and introduce a new campaign premise to deal with the demon problem internally. 

20090900 - <foundations> A minimum of two spheres of reality are featured. The world of Aeirn originated in another sphere of reality, where it was destroyed in a cataclysm. The world of Aeirn was resurrected in a sphere of reality created by the captive souls of a demon that survived the conflict and eventually migrated to the world of Earth. In the outer realm, the discovery and introduction of the human race to the avon race precipitated the conflict that led to the cataclysm.

