

the avon -- being neither...

because of who i am, i have always been caught on the border between male and female. inwardly, i am female, outwardly i am male; this has had the effect of making me neither. this is inevitably the position from which i think and because of that, i can not write about a character that is simply male or female. it also led me to envision another kind of human being different only by having ambisexual reproductive system. 

in the history of aeirn, it was the birth of a human among avon that brought magic to the world that was accessible to anyone. in the story i wish to tell, the birth of an avon among humans would allow me to present a character driven to explore the duality of human sexuality as part of her adventures. my experiences lend themselves to the character discovering that she was not a girl at the age of six or seven. 

around the same time, she discovered that she could push her genitals outside of her body and pass for a boy--if she could endure the pressure of living up to the expectations of those who saw her as a boy. at puberty, the differences between her body and a normal girl's became apparent. her skeletal proportions were female, but her musculature was more developed and she did not develop breasts. eventually, the two lives she was living collided and her secret was exposed. 


the art -- choosing to be her...

born and raised as a boy, morgan felt so strongly that he was a girl inside he used his time at the academy to learn how to use magic to become female. 

capturing the driving inspiration: morgan did more than just become a girl, "she" completely reinvented herself. the idea that he had been born wrong in one detail, sex, prompted him to explore all the details of his embodiment and create a face and form based upon his best understanding of who he really was. through this she became an embodiment of the art, possessing a deep insight into the true nature of magic.

incorporating old themes: morgan's transformation was just the first hurdle she would face. many people could not understand what she did and refused to accept her transformation. morgan also had little practical experience being a girl; she had a whole lifetime of experiences to make up for. even more concerning, she would have to fight for the independence she could have taken for granted as a man. morgan went with her mother to be trained and established as a girl by her grandmother. morgan's grandmother was a retired courtesan who trained girls to be courtesans--and she saw in morgan a potential heir. her training under her grandmother introduced her to the underworld in the role of messenger in matters concerning the preparation of female assassins who were also trained as courtesans.  

the accidental assasin thread can be supported: morgan's closest friends came to terms with her transformation. one of the boys asked her to pose as his girlfriend to help him catch the girl he wanted. this favor resulted in her gaining the attention of a boy who did not know about her past and he became determined to win her. this also resulted in her becoming involved with the assassin hired to kill him. morgan was mistaken for one of the courtesan-assassins. 

the wish thread can be integrated in at least two different ways. the original concept featured a wish made by the character's father; unaware that he had a daughter he wishes he'd had a son and the world is revised so that the girl was born a boy. one variation would feature a wish made by the character as a boy; he wishes he'd been born a girl. another variation would feature a wish made by the character as a girl; unaware that the man she wants is her father, she wishes he'd had a son.   



the threshold -- from common origins...

the common origin of the dragon and the phoenix. in order to give both characters a common origin, in the sense of being unextraordinary in themselves, they would have to be completely disassociated from the roles of the dragon and the phoenix. in effect, one would be just a player, and the other just a character. as a result, few if any of the existing themes and ideas could be retained and those that could be retained would have to be completely revised.  

a possability exists for having the game, with the intervention of a demon, serve as the means for creating a complimentary incarnation of the protagonist. in effect, a player falls victim to demonic possession and ends up reincarnated in the game just before play is suspended allowing the captive minds to be liberated -- because the demon is in stasis during their retreival. the new incarnation grows and matures during the interruption, as the game is advanced to introduce a new campaign to deal with the demon problem. 

this is a completely seperate and unique premise that could be used to set up the eve of paradox threshold story. a player who is male in the aegis but plays a female in aeirn is possessed by a demon who grants his secret wish. "i wish i had been born like this" being the key phrase that the demon used to justify claiming the player's body in-game. of course, the player was simply ejected from the game, but not before the demon conceived and reincarnated the player as her daughter. 

the game is suspended and he is forced to prepare a new character for the new campaign--this time as a male, at the insistence of his companions, who found him too unnerving in a female role. of course, there is now a living, female incarnation of him native to aeirn. 

there are a few uncertain threads, and a tendency for him to not bother with the establishment phase, or to subject himself to it at the lowest level to avoid having to experience growing up as a boy all over again. 

that underscores the need for the game to offer the option of objective and subjective character creation, development and establishment. 

a story along these lines would deal with the legacy of her conception and the destruction of her mother, the legacy of that traumatic event leading into the introduction and interaction of the two incarnations, culminating in the moment when she assimilates him. that story is also the preface to the eve of paradox.

this approach also reverts to the demon as the cause of her psychic trauma and his final displacement into aeirn and his assimilation by her. in the process, she gains access to the threshold interface and his knowledge of the aegis. this simplifies her acquisition of aegis related information, though it undermines her identity and origin as a girl.   

because an outside origin for the girl would undermine the story somewhat, either a two-stage incarnation or a division of a child with ambisexuality -- a human familiar -- would be better. since the alternate story now favors that option, a bridge between project approaches exists. the only necessary correction would be a revision of the domain concept to address souls of creation, in plural. the basis for which is already established. of course, the whole project can be simplified by just dealing with the child of a familiar. 

