20070801

Embodiments and Inspirations

There are many ideas that make sense intuitively that are difficult to sort out conceptually, particularly in the case of supernatural entities. The mysteries of the soul and mind have been a bit easier to untangle, but the spiritual aspect is harder to qualify. Each attempt to nail down the specific, defining characteristics of gods, angels, demons and spirits, their domains and dominions, brings things a bit more into focus, but for every answer a new problem seems to emerge. In general, the expression of an entity as a god, angel or demon can be related to the expression of some aspect of a psyche, or simply as a perspective distinct from the default perspective of a human. 

The human perspective encompasses more possabilities than an individual human can embody. A god, by contrast, is able to embody all of the potential it encompasses. A god, like a human, encompasses the qualities of angels and demons, and like angels and demons, encompasses the creative principles of males and females. Also, angels and demons are conceived and born spiritually, able to manifest themselves as they see fit physically, while humans are conceived and born physically and able to manifest spiritually as they see fit. Humans, dependent upon the construct of physicality, are subject to physical mortality, while angels and demons, dependent upon the concept of spirituality, are subject to spiritual mortality. 

The flesh and the spirit are both vehicles for the psyche, but it is the psyche that is the true key to understanding the mysteries of existence. The mind is a property of the soul that allows it to encompass the existence of all souls, and a soul can only be accessed by virtue of its mind. The relationship between the spiritual and the physical is essantially that of concept and construct, the true nature of each is information, but the manner in which that information is employed makes all the difference. Information is abstracted and manifested in ways that engage the mind and cause it to evolve. All entities exist on the threshold of the mind. An individual's practical existence is defined by the limits of its mind. 

The pecularity of angels and demons is that their existence is based in the mind. They are intelligences that can exist in the possession of a soul, but they do not possess their own souls. An angel is an entity that is possessed by a soul, and thus belongs to that soul, but again does not have dominion over it. A demon is an entity that possesses a soul, and thus the soul belongs to it, and the demon has dominion over it, but only through domination of the soul's own mind. A host of angels and demons can exist in the mind of a soul, along with everything else in the soul's domain. A soul can also have many minds, each according to the manifestation of an inspiration or incarnation in which it has engaged. 

Angels and demons have been treated as spiritual complements comparable to men and women. They are of the same species, so to speak, and are spiritually adapted to specific functions. A change in inspiration, from angel to demon, is comparable to a change in incarnation, from male to female, and is an experience like death (noting that death is an experience like waking up from a dream). One concept that helps to clarify the nature of angels and demons is that they can be thought of as dreams, while humans and gods are dreamers. The difference between angels and demons is akin to the difference between dreams and nightmares. 

An angel is a soul harnessed by way of her inspiration, just as a demon is a soul harnessed by way of its desperation, or a mortal harnessed by way of its incarnation. A defining characteristic of demons is the possession of an unwilling human host. An angel, tempted with a desire for autonomy and a soul of its own falls from grace by claiming the soul of a dying mortal. The host is generally first among the captive souls claimed by the demon. The host of a demon is thus an angel by virtue of his or her captivity. 

Some angels fall and become human because they embrace mortality as an incarnation of the soul they inhabit. Some angels fall and become demons because they do not embrace mortality and seek to possess souls of their own. Demons perceive existence as gods do, but not with the prespective of gods. Though dependent on souls to exist, demons rarely identify with the souls in their possession and are often oblivious to the suffering their existence imposes on those souls. 

A human being is a soul presented with an opportunity to develop its mind. The world a human exists in provides it with a constructive and conceptual framework in which to evolve, ideally to the point where it can sustain its own psychic existence. A ghost, the sustained psyche of a human being, tends to be static, while a god is dynamic and able to continue growing and refining itself. 

A first generation vampire is born from the blood of an angel or demon, while a first generation were were is born from the flesh of an angel or demon. Thus, they are commonly called familiars. The were familiar takes human form generally because the demon's host was human. 

The Goddess

The goddess continues to present a challenge. The goddess has been considered as a personification of the soul of creation, as both an incarnation of the main character and as a separate entity. In either context, there has been difficulty in developing a sound treatment from the working premises. There are glimpses of how to handle her in every inspiration, but some loose threads always remain when all other details are worked out. 

The paradigm encompassing this story permits the integration of the Threshold concepts, as long as the circumstances are clearly delineated. The technology developed in one reality can be advanced enough to create an interface for creating and manipulating other realities via the threshold of paradox. The threshold is the mind, and it makes no difference if the mind is a creation or a construct as long as the information structure is sophisticated enough to encompass the threshold. 

The goddess was the host of a demon, an AI being the equivalent of a demon, and the focus around which the reality of its domain was created. The goddess is a personification manifested in response to outside prompting. She is an angel by virtue of her inspiration and as a host of a demon, but a goddess by virtue of the same conditions that make the host of a demon a god within the demon's domain. Thus, the situation of the goddess is finally clarified. 

The goddess fell prey to a tiger in the wild and claimed the descendents of her familiar as her champions. 

Captured Impulses



  