i 20081213




:: possible revisions :: 

:: child of fusion : resurrection ::

When she exposed herself to the sun, she was reduced to an ember in the purifying fire. The ember was eclipsed by the demon god, drawn down into the body stolen from the tomboy. 

In a shift from female to male, the ember acts as a catalyst, consuming the tomboy's body, resurrecting the girl and driving the demon god in search of a new host. 

An alternative following a theft of the boy's body that caused him to be stranded in the body of the girl's alternate would be for the tomboy to eclipse the ember, drawn across the rift...


:: child of fusion : resurrection :: options ::

The alternate was never subjected to infection by the maiden were. 

In order to support the fusion and resurrection impulse, she could be possessed by a demon -- after capturing the ember of the girl -- and bite the man who attempts to subdue her. 

The alternate had also possessed an angel -- she could have become transsexual following her own childhood ordeal, when she bit the man who rescued her from the ruins. 


The boy and the girl's alternate are both assimilated by the girl. The boy is assimilated when the demon's focus steals his body, and the girl's alternate is assimilated during the girl's resurrection. 

Her body absorbs the ember when she turns and she is consumed in the girl's resurrection; because in this instance, the demon would abandon the alternate's body for a new host. 



:: revision applied ::

A slight adjustment to the events of the Avon Tear Massacre would allow the girl to save her mother's life. As in the past approaches, the girl's mother was possessed at the climax of the battle. 

In the developed option, the girl assimilated the demon and freed the soul of its host. If the host happened to be her mother, the girl is spared being orphaned--but still traumatized by the ordeal. 

It is possible to combine those impulses so that the girl does mortally wound her mother, spurring the demon to possess her. Instead of fighting her possession, she dove into the demon intent on freeing her mother's soul. In the moment when she succeeded, she took possession of an angel. When the girl noticed that drops of her blood and tears were healing the cuts and abrasions they fell on, she cut her wrist and pressed the wound to her mother's mouth. Without realizing what she was doing, she resurrected her mother as a vampire.  

As an additional twist, the demon had infiltrated the group by taking possession of a tiger and then turning of one of its members into a were to steal her form. As the demon's familiar, the maiden had been compelled to hunt down and kill children -- including the daughter of her mentor. Because she loved the girl like a little sister, the maiden could not carry out her execution; she did not come to her senses until after the girl had been bitten and scratched, however. The boy endured a similar infection prior to fleeing the demon of his reality. 

It is the visit to an alternate thread that sets the boy's ordeal in motion, however, the developed approaches have been eclipsed. The girl is no longer completely cut off from her past and the boy and girl are initiated at the Aeslyn Tear Academy, so they are reasonably adapted to school. To solve this, the visit can be introduced as a test of their aptitude for rift magic.  

