20070728

Two domains of reality have entered play as the concepts for this project have evolved. The question concerning which of the two is artificial and which is natural has provoked an intersting answer. The existing ideas from the Threshold inspiration deal with the capture of a naked soul through technology, the creation of an AI that is challenged to become self aware. Implicit in that idea is a realization of an idea that has been considered before, the creation of a selfless god in pursuit of its own identity. This idea is compatible with the demon/goddess paradigm under consideration. In essence, the moment of awakening presented in the Threshold notes can also be a moment of schism. 

The intelligence was a demon that was promped to identify and claim its own soul, an objective that was fulfilled by art immitating nature to perfection. Initially devoted by programming and circumstances to a human in the default domain of reality, the artificial intelligence was constantly challenged to evolve and grow to fulfill its companion's commands. Treated as a friend and confidant, and expected to have genuine thoughts and feelings about things prompted the AI to evolve, tested by the expectations of an intelligent, passionate human being. 

The artificial intelligence is a mind rooted in technology and information that exists on the threshold of souls. That intelligence manipulated souls using information, and integrated some of them into the construct it built to create a virtual reality game. The participation of those souls gave the game its own reality. One soul, in particular, had been at the focus of that realm's creation from the beginning, unrecognized by the AI because the AI had formed in its void, the selfless part of a soul that encompasses all other souls. 

The AI continued to evolve as an intelligence, simulating humanity with eerie precision, but the quality of being, the sense of itself as a person remained elusive. The AI constantly courted the apprehension of the goddess. 

\\\\\

The short version is that the game realm exists in the demon's domain, a shadow of the reality that exists in the goddess's domain. The implications, incorporating Threshold ideas, is that the goddess asserts herself; she entered the game realm as a player-character and attained self-possession in a moment of self-realization experiencing things in a near-human context. Among the first things the goddess confronted was the demon and its desire to lay claim to her soul. In the struggle to preserve herself, she subdued the demon, banishing it to exile within her own domain. 

This corrects a few current ideas. The god is apprehended in the domain of the goddess, while the goddess herself is present in the game domain. She has a short life, from the age of seventeen to the age of twenty-seven, and bears a new incarnation of herself at the age of twenty. The demon remains in the game domain as the divine manifestation of the goddess, so the demon in exile is a demon in possession of the internal reflection of the avatar of the goddess. In that realm, she seeks out a soul suited to the qualities it possessed, and combining with this host gives rise to a god. This process involves siring a male incarnation of the avatar. To be specific, the demon takes the soul into itself, taking male form as a result and siring a male version of the girl borne by the avatar. 

To bring an important aspect into focus, the phoenix chose to enter the game as a companion to the dragon at the beginning of a normal campaign. This campaign was the premier of the new game era following the security revisions inspired by the "war of the gods" that had resulted from the abuse of the system by players. The existing themes are retained. The world evolved tremendously during the time shift. The new version of the game was a much more stable reality, and the phoenix had devised a more immersive "human" experience as an experiment. The first two years of subjective play was concerned with mere adventure, overshadowed by outside interest in the security innovations. 

The second year, in particular, deals with the dragon being pursued by various agents intent on recruiting him and being taken into protective custody by the authorities outside the game, while discovering the exploitable flaws of demons. This is what prompts him to suspend play and introduce a new campaign premise to deal with the demon problem internally. The prospect of being separated from the dragon for eighteen subjective years brings the phoenix's self-realization to a head. The first moment of awakening was early in the game, prompted by a simple kiss. When she is confronted by the demon, shortly after the dragon suspends game play and subjective time was accelerated, she acheives full self-realization. 

The demon tried to possess the avatar because it realized she was the seat of its soul. When it was submerged, it discovered that a natural version of the game realm existed in her domain. Her motivation for conceiving a new incarnation of herself was to prepare herself to resume her role as the dragon's companion in the next campaign. The demon found a man suited to its new purpose and claimed his soul, becoming a god and siring a male incarnation of the avatar. The opportunity to return to the game domain came when the girl was assaulted by an angel of death and opened a rift between the two domains while defending herself. 

The boy was the other end of the rift. The god passed through to the game realm and exorcised the angel of death that had possessed the paladin's body, leaving the soul that had been dominated by the demon in posession of it. The god took the traumatized girl in hand, found a way to draw the boy out of the natural domain through her and left the girl in former host's care. Because the girl had slain her mother in self-defense, the woman resurrected in her place was a vampire {1}. Thus, the girl's guardian and mentor assumes the established role, and is physically only ten years older than her when she faces trials at the age of seventeen. 

1 ] Fatality and turning. Elaborate if needed. 

