! 20081211



<exploring possabilities> The girl confided her plan to the boy and their closest friends, and they offered to help figure out how to do it. It involved the manipulation of the media of space, time and mind. The group developed a spell that would allow them to target a specific splinter reality, so they would all be able to jump to the same world thread. The spell would keep their bodies locked in sleep to prevent the displaced consciousness of the alternate self they visited from getting into trouble in their bodies. 



<intimate curiosity> When the boy returned from the splinter of reality they had intended to visit, a world where the girl was never orphaned, and discovered himself in the girl's body, the implications of his visit were confirmed. His alternate and the girl's alternate had been the same person. 

When the girl was told that she was a splinter incarnation of the boy she was engaged to marry, she realized that he must have physically crossed over to her native realm to his to escape from the horror of what happened to him as a child in his world. 

The boy and girl found the consequence of their adventurous experiment, and the truth it revealed, agonizingly ironic. The boy had no past prior to the massacre. If he was a male version of her, he had to have been born in a different version of reality and physically crossed over to hers. 

There seemed little reason not to indulge their intimate curiosity; the girl and boy had already been lovers, and the opportunity to safely explore being the opposite sex was too tempting. 



<displacement> A more suitable body presented itself to the demon's focus, while the girl possessed the boy's body. The opportunity to take that body from her presented itself when the couple prepared to reverse their positions. 

The demon's focus put his plan into immediate action, forcing the girl to merge with her alternate in order to claim the boy's body. Once the switch was made, the boy was permanently cut off from his own body. 

The girl was disoriented by her fusion with her alternate when the boy traded places, returning her to her own body. The demon's focus had no trouble subduing her in spite of her struggle against the unexpected attack. 

After regaining consciousness and assimilating the mind of her alternate, the girl struggled to understand why the boy had attaked her and set out in search of him. Their friends told her he had not been himself when they confronted him.

It seemed impossible, but somehow the boy's body had been possessed by someone -- or something -- else. If so, the girl realized, the boy must still be trapped in her alter-ego's splinter. 

The girl debated over what to do. Her companions could still visit the boy in that reality, but she could not -- all she could do was trade realities with the boy, now that ther alternate had become a part of her. 



<tomboy> At first the boy does not know what to do. Trapped in the body of a female, alternate version of himself, the boy is confronted with the announcement of her engagement -- arranged by her regent -- and the inheritance of an estate that had been her mothers dowery.

Having ended up in the wrong body for the second time, the boy was hesitant to risk another psychic transfer. Remembering his discovery about physically crossing the rift once as a child, he convinces himself he can do it again, on purpose. 

When he confronts the girl, she is forced to explain that his body had somehow been possessed and stolen by someone else. Once he understands how he ended up in the alternate's body, he realizes that he was simply trading places with the girl when he was trying to return to his own body. 

The revelation forced the boy to truly face the fact that he was now a she. He was stuck as a girl for as long as it took to recover his body, maybe for the rest of her life. 

In a way, that would make it easier to accept the loss of the girl she loved. The closest she would ever come to being with the one she loved was simply being her. That epiphany was her salvation. 

Unfortunately, the girl had loved the boy just as deeply, and even if being two sides of the same coin meant that they could not be a couple, she could not bear the thought of the man she loved simply ceasing to exist. 

She was determined to find and somehow recover his body for him, but he made a request she could not refuse; teach him to be her -- or find a way to get her out of her arranged marriage -- first. 

The girl helps her new twin come to terms with being a girl -- a complete tomboy, to be sure, but as female the same -- while exploring the consequences of fusing with their alternate. 



<hunger & thirst> The tomboy quickly discovered that she was in over her head, as she became the victim of a preemptive assassination. In desperation, on the verge of death, she reached instinctively for the only way out she could find, using the fragile link created by her psychic displacement to escape death. 

The link the tomboy established with the thief, now part of the girl the boy grew up with, became the tomboy's only hope of escaping death. At least, if the girl was willing to merge with her. 

The girl, having experienced one psychic fusion, understood at once what was happening when the tomboy reached out to her. To save her lover, she had to share the tomboy's death and make her a part of herself. 

The girl eventually adjusts to the fusion, and though she cannot untangle herself from the thief and the tomboy, she holds onto the hope that she can one day return the tomboy to her proper body. 

The girl was determined to investigate the murder of the tomboy, now that their fusion gave her a way to visit a version of reality where she no longer had an alternate. 

Her attempts to forge new connections with the orphans of the city bring her to the attention of a powerful vampire and his were tiger rival. 

When the girl is bitten by the vampire and were tiger, she struggles with the hunger and thirst warring within her while each of her sires competes to bring her under his control. 

To escape their influence, she returns to her own reality. 

She takes refugue in the manor she had inherited, struggling to survive her crippling infections, until her only option is to turn inward, resigning herself to her death. 

Her ordeal begins when the bites of a vampire and a were leave her trapped inside her body on the verge of death. 



<eclipsed> Among the things she must face is overcoming her mental blocks, discovering the world within her, and confronting the angel -- formerly the demon that tried to possess her. 

When she is forced to turn inward, she enters the realm within her. Once eclipsed by the demon, she found herself in limbo, lost in a nightmare wasteland that was a pale reflection of reality. 

For her, the demon's realm was at first an incredibly lucid dream and potentially an eternal prison. It takes her a while to navigate the wasteland nightmare that enveloped the world within. In that ordeal, time seemed to have no meaning, but once she surfaces in the realm, things pick up. 

When she is confronted by other eclipsed souls, she learns there are individuals among them who had turned their back on the lure of becoming gods of the inner realm to search for a way back to the realm of their origin, known to the rest as lost souls. 

The depths of the demon's mind was where the souls it collected were imprisoned, and the nightmare they shared evolved into a mortal realm. 

The seed souls initially entered a kind of wasteland, a chaotic, shifting amorphea polarized by the surreal and the ideal. Their thoughts and feelings created the world they existed in, an unending dream that was difficult to control because it was shared. 

In time, they learned how to manipulate their reality, even as reality became stable through the influence of their offspring, replicating the pattern of their host realm and becoming the inner gods of the demon’s realm. 

When she is confronted by the angel, it holds the key to unlocking potential that will allow her to overcome the warring infections and resurrect her body. 

When she blocked the events of that night from her mind, she instinctively eclipsed the angel and forced it to turn inward. Only when she finally acknowledges the angel does she learn what really happened and how that led to the theft of the boy's body. 

When she turned the demon into her angel, the girl became the goddess of the domain inhabited by the souls of the eclipsed and their descendants. Unfortunately, this was what made her vulnerable to an attack from within by one of those souls. 

The demon's focus had been subject to attempts by some of the inner gods, previously eclipsed souls, to escape their prison by directly confronting and dominating the demon, striking at it through him. 

To escape, the focus had come up with a scheme to claim the body of the demon's host. When the angel appeared, the focus identified it as the personna of a new host and captured her. His assault upon the girl's mind was mounted through the angel -- forcefully, but not cruelly. 

He intended to drive the demon into a new host, claiming the current host's body for himself. In his own mind, the focus saw what he was doing as necessary. In exchange for her body, she would become a goddess, but as the focus, he was in constant danger from those seeking dominion.  

When the girl explains what happened to her, the angel reveals a startling secret. The angel created the vampire and the were; the former when it was an angel of the realm, the latter after its fall and transformation into a demon. 

What the girl becomes is the opposite of a vampire, a creature that exists on the cusp of death, only virually alive. She clung to the cusp of life, virtually dead. Instead of becoming undead, she had become undying. 

The other thing she gains from her dual infection, from the were, is the ability to change her sex and shape, anywhere between male and female, human and tiger -- though she suspects that her ability to become male is as much a consequence of having merged minds with a male version of herself. 



<alternate option> In the threads where Morgan escaped the threat of demonic possession, the assassin remained possessed, a weapon eager to slip free from the bonds of her master.  



<transposition variation : adapted> The first time she tried to probe her alternate lives, she became trapped in a street orphan version of herself who had escaped from the massacre of her family without being psychically assaulted by the demon. 

The exile had taken over the girl's body as she was working the spell and broke the pattern before her body was suspended, sending the girl's consciousness to a much closer version of herself than she had intended. 

The streets became her alternate's refuge from the orphanage. Her life on the streets led to a life in the underworld as a cat burgler and a vampire's pet. The vampire was a lord of the underworld, who, it was rumored, had made her an assassin. 

The rumor about the girl's alternate causes her to become mixed up in an assassination plot [the accidental assassin thread] while her mind is confused by the forced fusion with her alternate. 

When the exile encounters the boy and his friends, the trio realize that the girl is not in her right mind. When she escapes and disappears, they trio investigate and discover that the girl had attempted the reality-bridging spell on her own. 

The boys used the spell the girl had crafted to try and find her, assuming that her alternate had fled in her body. Of course, they did not know that the exile had taken possession of her body or that his interference had forced her to merge with her alternate instead of displacing her. 

They assumed that the girl had discovered the same thing and had become distracted exploring her alternate history, unaware that her alternate had somehow woken up and run off in her body. 

They also assumed that the girl had been displaced by the boy, in turn, so his companions returned to confront her in his body to tell her to return to her own body because that was the quickest way to recover her body from her alternate. 

Once back in their proper places, they were stunned to discover that the boy's body had gone missing while they were away, taken by the exile. 

The exile realized he could use the spell the girl created to steal the boy's body. On the surface, it targeted the reality the girl's alternate was from, but in truth it targeted her mind specifically as a product of that reality, even though it currently inhabited a body native to the boy's reality. 

As the exile had deduced, the spell found the mind native to the target reality -- even if it happened to be in another splinter of reality. 

The exile did not risk putting the displaced alternate into suspension within the girl's body, he simply rendered her unconscious by more mundane means when he freed the boy's body from it's suspension to do the swap. 

The two companions found the confused and disoriented girl-alternate and explained what was happening to her -- and what they planned to do to put things right. Unfortunately, they were still unaware of the exile's interference. 

Thanks to the companions' explanation, the alternate was able to figure out what had happened when she was displaced once again. 

 

<revision option : A variation worth exploring involves having the girl and the boy both experience a version of the massacre... ! 2009 initiation> 

20091120 - A twist on that variation would be for a version of the girl who fled from the threat of possession to cross over to a version of reality where the girl was never orphaned. As a result, she would become her own twin. 

One version of the girl was seduced into the underworld and a life of crime by a vampire. Only one alternate is required to act as the catalyst for placing the boy and girl in each other's bodies. 

The primary alternate was assimilated by the girl and the boy is left in her body as a tomboy. When the tomboy is slain in an attack on the vampire's household, the girl is assumed to be the tomboy raised as a vampire. The girl is turned into a were-vampire by an attempt to heal her from wounds inflicted by a were. 

<influence> The ring of the paladin thread used staggered incarnations and time travel through the rift to bring a male second incarnation and an ambisexual third incarnation into synch with the female first incarnation. It was not the only proposal featuring three incarnations of the protagonist, but it offered some insight for integrating such threads. 

This proposal is stable enough to establish and support those threads and the fabric of options they support, using a side-real paradox instead of a temporal loop paradox. The story can benefit from the addition of a third perspective and the situations she can support. 




