ei 20070820


:: common origins ::

On the common origin of the dragon and the phoenix: In order to give both characters a common origin, in the sense of being unextraordinary in their circumstances, they would have to be completely disassociated from the roles of the dragon and the phoenix as they were initially developed. 

However, if one is just a player and the other just a character, few if any of the existing themes and ideas could be retained and those that could be retained would have to be completely revised.  


:: one from the other ::

A possability exists for having the game, with the intervention of a demon, serve as the means for creating a complimentary incarnation of the protagonist. This is a completely seperate and unique premise that could be used to set up the eve of paradox threshold story. 

In this approach, a player falls victim to demonic possession and ends up reincarnated in the game just before play is suspended allowing the captive minds to be liberated -- because the demon is in stasis during their retreival. The new incarnation grows and matures during the interruption, as the game is advanced to introduce a new campaign to deal with the demon problem. 

A player who is male in the aegis but plays a female in aeirn is possessed by a demon who grants his secret wish. "I wish I had been born like this" being the key phrase that the demon used to justify claiming the player's body in-game. Of course, the player was simply ejected from the game, but not before the demon conceived and reincarnated the player as her daughter. 

The game is suspended and he is forced to prepare a new character for the new campaign--this time as a male. This change could be at the insistence of his companions, who found him too unnerving in a female role, or because he found the temporary escape made his normal life too painful. 

There are a few uncertain threads, and a tendency for him to not bother with the establishment phase, or to subject himself to it at the lowest level to avoid having to experience growing up as a boy all over again. That underscores the need for the game to offer the option of objective and subjective character creation, development and establishment. 

A story along these lines would deal with the legacy of her conception and the destruction of her mother, the legacy of that traumatic event leading into the introduction and interaction of the two incarnations, culminating in the moment when she assimilates him. That story is also the preface to the eve of paradox.

This approach also reverts to the demon as the cause of her psychic trauma and his final displacement into aeirn and his assimilation by her. In the process, she gains access to the threshold interface and his knowledge of the aegis. This simplifies her acquisition of aegis related information, though it undermines her identity and origin as a girl.   

Because an outside origin for the girl would undermine the story somewhat, either a two-stage incarnation or a division of a child with ambisexuality -- a human familiar -- would be better. Since the alternate story now favors that option, a bridge between project approaches exists. The only necessary correction would be a revision of the domain concept to address souls of creation, in plural. The basis for which is already established. Of course, the whole project can be simplified by just dealing with the child of a familiar. 


:: overlap, female self-conception ::

The demon within concept has evolved to encompass a way to divide a character into male and female incarnations. Before applying it, this is a good time to examine an alternative to the concept inspired by the story of the phoenix, a concept that needs to be briefly restated here. The phoenix inspiration features a girl who steps back in time to become her own mother, based on an idea inspired by the stories of Jean Grey and Rachel Summers prior to the revisions made to bring Jean back as a member of X-Factor. 

The concept features a girl with psychic abilities that grow by several orders of magnitude over a series of ordeals beginning with telepathically experiencing the death of a childhood friend. Her power was trained and tested through the trials of adventure as a member of an elite combat unit. Her power grew as the result of surviving a fatal ordeal, when she sacrificed herself to save the team. After her resurrection, many viewed her as a goddess and when she fell prey to a demonic influence she tried to destroy herself. Her death shook the entire team. A short while later, a girl claiming to be her daughter from the future was taken into the group and learned of her mother's death. 


:: overlap, male incarnation, female reincarnation ::

A revision of that inspiration features a boy who is transgendered. He is forced to confront the truth about himself when he encounters the girl of his dreams and realizes that instead of wanting to be with her he truly wants to be her. A demon uses his secret desire to gain power over him, granting his wish to be the girl he always dreamt of being. The girl who forced him to confront his true feelings had somehow stumbled back in time only to discover that her mother did not exist. Instead, and in part due to her own investigation of this mystery, she ends up assuming her mother's place in history, falling in love and becoming intimate with the boy before he is driven away by his personal demon. 

When the boy returns as her twin, she takes the new girl in hand. Here, there is the option of incorporating the threads of Hunger & Thirst; the neo-girl gets caught up in a wager between a were-tiger and a vampire, her body the battleground in a war between the power of their infections. At this point, it works to call her Ash and the girl from the future Ember. Ash survives the ordeal, turned into a were-vampire and courted by her sires and overshadowed by the hunger and thirst that now consume her. The demon exploits her taint to eclipse her, eventually forcing Ash to fight for her soul. 

Afraid that her victory over the demon is only temporary, Ash exposes herself to the sun, unwittingly accelerating the fusion of her infections, burning away all her imperfections and reducing herself to a mote -- an ember of rebirth. Ember is drawn to the psychic death cry of her adopted twin, impregnating herself with the ember as she arrives by teleportation. Ember, the reincarnation of Ash, becomes her own mother. 

The challenge is to incorporate the many threads developed around the singular duality concept. There are also a number of threads developed around different versions of the main character for different stories. The revised phoenix inspiration can combine the demonic ring and demon within threads, in the first case acting as the mechanism for transforming and later possessing Ash, while in the later case as a recurring adversary for Ember as a consequence of Ash eclipsing the demon of the ring. 

One of the questions that needs to be resolved is the time and cause of Ember's temporal displacement. In most cases, the displacement occurs when Ember is seventeen, but in some cases it occurs when she is seven -- usually to obscure the event from Ember, but in some cases to establish her among her peers. In at least one case, her displacement at seven results in her initiation under Ash's mother and her betrothal to Ash. Initiated by his father, Ash was absent for most of the ten years leading up to the first book, when the pair face their first ordeals at seventeen. 

The path originating with the demon familiar conception comes close to the same situation, establishing the pair without a temporal displacement -- but it does not successfully incorporate the threads of the demonic ring, and had to be revised to incorporate the threads of the demon within, the wager and hunger and thirst. 

One of the benefits of displacing seven-year-old Ember, as a reincarnation of Ash, is the opportunity to integrate threads and inspirations from Unpromised. Ember is adopted by a were-tiger clan in the service of the vampire underlord -- as an overlord of the underworld is commonly called. Ember's vampiric traits cause some to speculate that she was the daughter of a were-tiger and an "aroused" vampire, who was orphaned when her parents were destroyed for their forbidden union. Her adopted clan's patron arranged for her apprenticeship to one of his human courtesans, Ash's mother. In addition to being a courtesan, Ash's mother was a spy and an expert thief. Ember's natural fighting talents led many to assume that she was being trained to become an assassin -- including her patron's familiar and chief assassin. 

Her patron's familiar was the head of Ember's clan. He took an interest in her dance instruction, gradually introducing her to the naked dance. When events conspired to seemingly confirm his suspicions about her path, he began to mentor her in the art of assassination. This thread ties in with unpromised, avatars and the accidental assassin. 

Ash was trained, like his father, to be a paladin. He was on the path that Ember secretly longed to follow but was denied because of her sex and nature. Ash was introduced to the heirs and apprentices of other paladins, initiates like himself -- including the dragon. His attraction to Ember was profound enough that his parents arranged for her to be betrothed to him, and there was something about him that Ember could not resist. On becoming intimate, however, Ash began to struggle with the true cause of his attraction to Ember. A demon confronted him with the truth by granting his heart's secret wish to be a girl. Inexplicably, as a girl, Ash was identical to Ember.

There is some difficulty in applying the demonic ring into this framework; the best option being that Ash found the ring when he was seven, rousing the demon within and marking the point in time Ember would be drawn back to from the future. As a child, Ash would not have been able to properly wear the ring but his identity conflict would have been profoundly sharp in his -- or in truth, her -- mind. The ring, left behind and forgotten for ten years, fit him when he rediscovered it on his return home at the age of seventeen. Once bound to the ring, which harnessed the demon's powers to its wielder's will, Ash could explore the life she had been denied -- and gave the demon a chance to escape it's prison and possess her.

New to being a girl. Ash was easily aroused. Ash ended up being infected as a result of being mistaken for Ember during a contest between her vampire patron and the vampire's were-tiger familiar. Each was intent on laying claim to Ember by being the first to seduce her. The tiger was the first to bite Ash, infecting her and causing her to fight and take flight -- right into the vampire's arms. Her bleeding caused him to lose control, taking her as he would a vampire lover, draining her and letting her drink of him.  The demon saw her dual infection as the opportunity it had been waiting for and succeeded in escaping the ring. Possessing Ash proved more difficult. As a girl, Ash was extremely self-possessed, so the demon could only emerge under certain conditions. 


:: overlap, female incarnation, male reincarnation ::

Her father died within hours of her conception. His soul became trapped in the ring until his daughter found it and put it on. He took possession of her body and used the power of the ring to become male again. Because of the deal he made with the demon, he was taken back in time to rescue the girl's mother. He reincarnates his daughter by using the ring to reincarnate her as his son. 

While not the best solution, it was one of the ideas explored for dividing an individual into male and female incarnations. The eclipsed girl begins to reassert herself as he approaches the time of her displacement. The girl ends up recovering the ring from those who killed her father and uses it to pose as the boy after he turns into a girl. 


