20070803

This revision acheives the split conception by way of a pocket universe in the shadow of her mother and the demon that possessed her. The idea of complementary incarnations being conceived in alternate realities provides a common origin and time frame, and the involvement of the demon as presented below even allows the mother and daughter to be brought into the boy's world when he is seven. 

A difficult idea to implement, it depends on a very subtle and complicated set of definitions for gods, angels and demons as expressions of psychic and spiritual potential. The Threshold concept provides for a context for establishing the dreamer in the dream on the threshold of existence through the creation of an intelligence with godlike qualities and a role in the creation of a reality; both anchored in a non-corporeal soul (I 20070728). The connection to the goddess is sustained in a way that she herself is not responsible, with consequences she is not certain of. The vampire-were theme can be transferred to the mother (see Lineage) reinforcing the existing dual suitors theme of the mother's thread. 

A maiden possessed by a fallen angel
A boy sired to dispose of its tie to its host
A girl conceived by the maiden in reflex
An attack upon the mother by those seeking access to the demon
A return to the mother's reality provoked by an assault upon the girl's mind


In this version of events, the girl is born in a shadow of reality, a world based on her mother's memories of her own world. In her mother's world, a male version of her is born, a boy who is also an incarnation of the goddess. The maiden had been the chosen of the goddess, of whom the angel had been jealous. In claiming the maiden's soul, the angel fell and earned the fury of the goddess. In the seven years spent in exile within the demon's shadow, other souls fell prey to the demon. Among them, a demonologist who conceived of the plan to attack the demon through its host. 

The demonologist's attack forces the demon to turn its attention inward, allowing the mother to reassert herself in her body. The demon routed the attack and turned its attention to the girl, the only truly living soul in its domain. Unaware of the girl's true origins, the demon reached out to touch her soul only to be destroyed by the girl's connection to the goddess. The demon's realm shattered along with it, loosing its inhabitants upon the threshold. The girl instinctively sought the only haven she knew of, and slipped across the threshold to her mother's side. 

The destruction of the demon actually serves to restore the girl and her mother to the normal universe, where they are reintegrated into the mother's family, and where neither knows the truth about the boy the demon sired. The destruction of the demon was a reflexive and unconscious event within the girl's psyche, leaving the ashes of the demon scattered in the depths of her mind where they give rise to a more personal demon tied to the power the demon's probing awoke. Finally, this ordeal establishes the girl's psychic abilities as her extraordinary character facet.

The boy and girl each have a mother and no father. No one knows of their unique connection, so they encounter each other as strangers and develop a relationship in an entirely normal fashion enhanced only by their strong resemblance, which plays a part in prompting their introduction to each other. As the son of a courtesan, the boy grew up hearing that he was "supposed" to have been a girl. The taunting that came with being a couresan's son caused him to suppress any feminine traits, including the tendency to identify with girls easier than boys. 

The boy knew very little about his father and worked quietly over the years to track him down. He was fostered by one of her mother's patrons, a knight in the service of the lord who had a son his age. The two boys were like brothers, and entered the academy together. Unknown to him, his roommate was an outsider. The boy was plagued with odd dreams about a girl, and his mind refused to acknowledge that in some of the dreams he was the girl. 

The boy's roommate was distracted and disoriented at times, due to the ordeal he was going through as part of the preface to the campaign that would begin when the outsiders' characters came of age. 


Unadapted

The courtesan's son was shaken by an unexpected encounter with what seemed to be the girl of his dreams who had joined his mother's house. 

The two work out a way of sharing the body, after discovering that it would manifest the form of the dominant spirit. The discovery had also allowed them to escape from the trap the demon had left them in when they drove it out. When they took possession, they were being hunted for the crimes the demon had committed and caught with the blood of one of his victims on their hands. 

The changed nature of the body when they claimed it made it easy for them to be mistaken for a demon. The girl's father and cousin (on her mother's side) provide assistance, recognizing the girl when she asserts herself. The father trains them in spirit projection, realizing in the process that the boy is a reincarnation of the girl. The nature of their relationship kept him from revealing the truth to them, for fear of causing a schism in their psyche. 

The girl presents herself as the boy's mate, to gain acceptence from his family and to explain her recurring presence. Initially, she is the one living predominantly in the spirit, believing that she and the boy are seperate entities, and that he was naturally entitled to inhabit his own body. Her reunion with her father and the discovery of her vampire heritage provide her with more than enough to occupy her, including the prospect of one day manifesting a new body of her own. 

She also realizes that the demon was most likely engaged in the same process, seeking to either manifest a new form of its own or claim a new vessel. The body of the demon's original host had been destroyed during the massacre by her parents, and she had prevented it from reestablishing itself in her mother's body. Wondering about the fate of her own body led her to realize the truth about the boy she loved.  


Lineage

The girl's mother was conceived by a were-tiger and a vampire. The tiger bloodline her grandmother descended from served the goddess as her champions, making it their duty to protect mortals from threats like vampires. The vampire bloodline her grandfather descended from had been established in the same kingdom, coming into conflict with the champions every time a mortal devoted to the goddess was slain or turned. 

Her grand father was a vampire who clung to his humanity. His longing for the life he remembered led him to discover what foods and drinks he could tolerate, and in proper combinations even lessened his dependency on blood. Over time, he was able to expand his diet to the point of restoring his body's metabolism and passing for human. He also discovered that it reduced his sensitivity to light and flame. 
The more vital he became, the easier it was to resist the compulsions of his vampiric nature, and this allowed him to escape from the coven he had been raised into. He met and fell in love with a woman he later discovered was a were-tiger who, like him, had fled from her own kind. They overcame their differences, and her blood provided him the one thing he had been missing. 

Her blood enhanced his restorative regeneration, restoring his life and fertility, while being bled suppressed her were nature and allowed them to conceive a child. Unfortunately, they were tracked down by their own kind and separated from each other soon after. The each kept the other's true nature a secret from their own kind. Unfortunately, their sires suspected something amiss and investigated several years later. 


Vampires

The myths and legends about vampires are based on generalized speculation and exaggeration of reports from actual encounters. There are different stages vampires can go through, and different raits and characteristics that reveal themselves under certain conditions. Vampires do not feed solely on blood, but it is something they require in order to function properly. Vampires do not generally kill their human prey, since the first component of vampirism is transmitted by their bite. A vampire's bite is restorative; it has the power to raise the dead or rejuvenate the living. In essence, the bite gives the dead a few more days of life and leaves the living a few days younger.

In most cases, vampires do not bite the dead, but when a living recipient of a vampire bite dies or is slain within days of the bite, he or she rises from the dead. The regenerative properties of a vampire bite have a refining quality, drawing flesh and spirit into closer association. In the case of the slain, flesh and spirit are reunited, but the catalyst for sustaining that union, life, has been interrupted. The risen dead is essentially a ghost in a shell. The vampire bite preserves, but is not capible of restoring, the processes of life, so once its influence wears off, the insatiable hunger and thirst of the dead is what usually drives a revenant to attack the living. 

Those that eat the flesh of their victims tend to remain revenants, mutating into zombies that later decay into skeletons. Those that simply drink the blood of their victims enter the first stage of vampirism. The blood provides life energy and nutrients in a form the revenant can assimilate due to changes in the flesh and spirit caused by the initial bite in the absence of normal living processes which gradually override the infection. The blood of the living does not provide what the vampire needs to develop into its full powers. To become fully fledged, a new vampire has to find a mature vampire that is willing to adopt it into a bloodline. 

The process initiated by the bite is completed when the immature vampire feeds on the blood of a mature vampire and enters the second stage of vampirism. Most vampires are discouraged from holding on to their humanity. Domination of younger vampires is inherent in the nature of the bloodlines and reinforced by fear and ignorance. The vampires most likely to survive are turned and blooded at the same time, protected and controlled by their sires. The second stage of vampirism completes the fusion of flesh and spirit, and the vampire becomes sustained by light, though the repair and maintenence of its body still requires it to feed on mortal blood. 

Though few experiment enough discover it, vampires can reaclimate to natural food by ingesting it in liquid form. Restoring the metabolic processes of the body puts tremendous strain on the spirit, so revenants and vampires tend to adapt to the simplest diet to meet their needs, and blood usually meets those needs most effectively. Solid foods are the most difficult for vampires to readjust to, but returning to a solid diet is one of the most reliable ways to restore themselves to a lasting semblence of life. Blood, while quick to revitalize a vampire, gives only a fleeting restoration of life, and increases sensativity to intense light. 

The third stage of vampirism is one that few vampires are ever told about. Ironically, it beings by succumbing to their greatest fear, burning. The burning of a vampire, by sunlight or in the pyre, is necessary for a vampire to evolve into its full powers, and complete its spiritual evolution. Like angels and demons, true vampires are living spirits. This is the secret to their immortality, and the state of vampire existence that accounts for some of the more bizarre vampire myths, such as the ability to transform into mist or ash, their lack of reflection or shadow when perceived solely in the mind of their observers, and even their susceptability to spiritual admonition, wards and symbols.   

