"G:\Lab\.github\writing\fiction\notes\arcs\child-in-the-underworld_20100808-0507.doc"

child in the underworld

applicable 

the girl’s mother had provided as much protection for her daughter as she could in the underworld. only her master -- or those above him -- could compel her to risk or compromise her daughter. unfortunately, she could not protect the girl from herself. 

the girl fell in with the wrong crowd while growing up. her amazing agility earned her an unwitting, street-wise apprenticeship in cat burglary, disguised initially as training in the naked dance -- a combination of dance, gymnastics, acrobatics and unarmed fighting. 

the girl obscured her life as a thief so well that she gained a reputation in the underworld as an unusually competent assassin-in-training. 

<>


applied

it was fairly common for vampires to claim were familiars; the familiar would act as the vampire’s agent and provide protection during the day. in most cases, the familiar started out as a human servant or protégé who became infected by a were while acting as the vampire's agent. the establishment of the vampire's patronage prior to the were being turned was the precedent used to overrule the were sire's claim.

<>

inapplicable

the girl freed her mother from demonic possession by converting the demon into her angel
the girl resurrected her slain mother as a vampire
the vampire mother struggled to raise her daughter in the underworld
the vampire mother was forced to call upon her courtesan heritage to survive in the underworld

it was natural for the demon's vampire progeny to assume that the girl's mother was sired into their bloodline, created by one of the vampires that did not survive the attack. 
 
the girl’s mother had accepted and adapted to her new existence by volunteering to be an agent in the underworld for her mentor, the paladin. 

as one of the undead, the girl's mother was expected to sever her mortal ties, including the legal role of parent and guardian. the girl’s relationship with her mother was recreated in the underworld through the traditions of the immortals. her mother hid the fact that her daughter had turned her into a vampire, but the girl's transformation into a were by her protégé could not be concealed. 

her mother fought to claim the maiden were, formerly her protégé, as her familiar and the protégé had to identify herself as the girl's sire. the girl, as the progeny of her mentor, her mother’s were familiar, was recognized as a member of her mother's household. 

having no home, however, the trio was forced to tour the underworld. 

<>


"G:\Lab\.github\writing\fiction\notes\arcs\child-in-the-underworld_old_20090130-1715.doc"

INTO THE UNDERWORLD

It was natural for the demon's vampire progeny to assume that the girl's mother was sired into their bloodline, created by one of the vampires that did not survive the attack. 
 
The girl’s mother had accepted and adapted to her new existence by volunteering to be an agent in the underworld for her mentor, the paladin. 

As one of the undead, the girl's mother was expected to sever her mortal ties, including the legal role of parent and guardian. The girl’s relationship with her mother was recreated in the underworld through the traditions of the immortals. Her mother hid the fact that her daughter had turned her into a vampire, but the girl's transformation into a were by her protégé could not be concealed. 

It was fairly common for vampires to claim were familiars to act as their agents and protect them during the day. In most cases, the familiar started out as a human servant or protégé who became infected by a were while acting as the vampire's agent. The establishment of the vampire's patronage prior to the were being turned was the precedent used to overrule the were sire's claim.

Her mother fought to claim the maiden were, formerly her protégé, as her familiar and the protégé had to identify herself as the girl's sire. The girl, as the progeny of her mentor, her mother’s were familiar, was recognized as a member of her mother's household. 

Having no home, however, the trio was forced to tour the underworld. 

The girl’s mother had provided as much protection for her daughter as she could in the underworld. Only her master -- or those above him -- could compel her to risk or compromise her daughter. Unfortunately, she could not protect the girl from herself. 

The girl fell in with the wrong crowd while growing up. Her amazing agility earned her an unwitting, street-wise apprenticeship in cat burglary, disguised initially as training in the naked dance -- a combination of dance, gymnastics, acrobatics and unarmed fighting. 

The girl obscured her life as a thief so well that she gained a reputation in the underworld as an unusually competent assassin-in-training. 



"G:\Lab\.github\writing\fiction\notes\arcs\massacre_20100213-1954.doc"

avon tear massacre

applicable 

at the time of the attack, the girl's parents had graduated to the rank of master at the avon tear academy. 

initially, the girl resisted the demon’s invasion of her mind. her psychic potential manifested in response to the demon's attempt to penetrate the depths of her mind and harvest her soul. when she lashed out with that raw power, the wounds the girl inflicted proved mortal, spurring the demon to possess her. 

in a realm where the demon bore the child to be its familiar
	the child was conceived with the ability to turn into a girl or boy
	the child initially turned into a boy when touched by a male or into a girl when touched by a female

the child was presented as a ploy to get the demon inside to carry out its attack
the child recognized what was happening and lead the children to safety 
the child tore through the fabric of reality fighting to escape from demonic possession

the child did not deny being the demon’s familiar when confronted by the paladin
the child was offered sanctuary as an initiate sponsored by the paladin

the paladin raised the child in the realm she tore through to
<>

inapplicable

a single demon was responsible for the avon tear massacre, with the support of its familiars. the demon called primarily on its vampire progeny. 

the demon had infiltrated the group by taking possession of a tiger to stalk and then turn of one of its members into a were familiar to steal her form. 

as the demon's familiar, the maiden had been compelled to hunt down and kill children -- including the daughter of her mentor. the massacre had been timed for the week of initiate testing, when seven-year-olds were examined for psychic potential. the children were targeted in order to ensure the school's destruction. 

because she loved the girl like a little sister, the maiden could not carry out her execution; she did not come to her senses until after the girl had been bitten and scratched, however. the boy endured a similar infection prior to fleeing the demon of his reality. 

the girl's mother was possessed at the climax of the battle. 

instead of fighting her possession, the girl dove into the demon intent on freeing her mother's soul. in the moment when she succeeded, she took possession of an angel. 

when the girl noticed that drops of her blood and tears were healing the cuts and abrasions they fell on, she cut her wrist and pressed the wound to her mother's mouth. without realizing what she was doing, she resurrected her mother as a vampire.  

<>

applied

<>


"G:\Lab\.github\writing\fiction\notes\arcs\massacre_old_20090130-1713.doc"

AVON TEAR MASSACRE

At the time of the attack, the girl's parents had graduated to the rank of master at the Avon Tear Academy. 

A single demon was responsible for the Avon Tear Massacre, with the support of its familiars. The demon called primarily on its vampire progeny. 

The demon had infiltrated the group by taking possession of a tiger to stalk and then turn of one of its members into a were familiar to steal her form. 

As the demon's familiar, the maiden had been compelled to hunt down and kill children -- including the daughter of her mentor. The massacre had been timed for the week of initiate testing, when seven-year-olds were examined for psychic potential. The children were targeted in order to ensure the school's destruction. 

Because she loved the girl like a little sister, the maiden could not carry out her execution; she did not come to her senses until after the girl had been bitten and scratched, however. The boy endured a similar infection prior to fleeing the demon of his reality. 

The girl's mother was possessed at the climax of the battle. 

Initially, the girl resisted the demon’s invasion of her mind. Her psychic potential manifested in response to the demon's attempt to penetrate the depths of her mind and harvest her soul. When she lashed out with that raw power, the wounds the girl inflicted on her mother proved mortal, spurring the demon to possess the girl. 

Instead of fighting her possession, the girl dove into the demon intent on freeing her mother's soul. In the moment when she succeeded, she took possession of an angel. 

When the girl noticed that drops of her blood and tears were healing the cuts and abrasions they fell on, she cut her wrist and pressed the wound to her mother's mouth. Without realizing what she was doing, she resurrected her mother as a vampire.  


"G:\Lab\.github\writing\fiction\notes\arcs\orphan-heir_20100808-0510.doc"

orphan & heir


applicable 

the girl was technically an orphan, traumatized by her ordeal. 

the girl was the heir to a house that was created to protect and defend the goddess and her followers. once, it was a royal house of arden before the kingdom of ardoen absorbed the kingdom of arden in the wake of the purge and the occupation. 

the title she stood to inherit would make her the paladin of the goddess. 

<>

inapplicable

the girl became the legal ward of her regent. 

officially, the girl was being raised through several layers of guardianship, in the immediate care of her mentor, under the guidance of the academy, under the auspices of the orphanage, under the authority of the regent -- her legal guardian.

in the underworld, the girl encountered the boy among the street orphans. her mentor sensed that she was his sire and took him into her protection. 

in the official world, the boy was identified as the girl's distant cousin. this made him a rival for the title and estate the girl stood to inherit as the last living member of her house. 

<>

applied

<>


"G:\Lab\.github\writing\fiction\notes\arcs\orphan-heir_old_20090130-1714.doc"

ORPHAN & HEIR

The girl was technically an orphan, traumatized by her ordeal. 

The girl was the heir to a house that was created to protect and defend the goddess and her followers. Once, it was a royal house of Arden before the Kingdom of Ardoen absorbed the Kingdom of Arden in the wake of the Purge and the Occupation. 

The girl became the legal ward of her regent. 

The title she stood to inherit would make her the paladin of the goddess. 

Officially, the girl was being raised through several layers of guardianship, in the immediate care of her mentor, under the guidance of the academy, under the auspices of the orphanage, under the authority of the regent -- her legal guardian.

In the underworld, the girl encountered the boy among the street orphans. Her mentor sensed that she was his sire and took him into her protection. 

In the official world, the boy was identified as the girl's distant cousin. This made him a rival for the title and estate the girl stood to inherit as the last living member of her house. 


"G:\Lab\.github\writing\fiction\notes\arcs\purge-and-paradox_20100213-2002.doc"

phoenix purge & the eve of paradox

applicable 

the eve of paradox came about as a consequence of a purge of the phoenix house, an assassination conspiracy designed as part of a coup to deliver the kingdom of arden into the hands of a cabal of athelonian exiles. agents of the church in the kingdom of ardoen were the true authors of the purge. 

the majority of royal and noble houses of arden had defied the church’s interpretation of the revelation and remained devoted to the goddess avon, but the patriarchal minority that embraced the church along with the revelation seceded to form the kingdom of ardoen. a purge of the phoenix house would enable the agents of the church to stage coups in both kingdoms, an essential step in founding the ardoen empire.  

the church intended to betray the cabal, which ultimately sought to shatter the athelon empire, in retaliation for the scourge -- both supported by the church -- and reclaim their domains among the winter kingdoms. the purge was designed to pit two enemies of the church against each other, weakening both. 

the goddess had given the maiden a guardian angel in preparation for her eventual promotion to paladin. as the goddess faced her destruction, she entrusted the rebirth of her naked soul to the demon assassin. 

<>

inapplicable

at the time of the purge, the girl's parents had been companions of the paladin of the goddess. her mother was a daughter of the arden branch of the phoenix house, her father was a son of the ardoen branch of the phoenix house. 

<>

applied

<>


"G:\Lab\.github\writing\fiction\notes\arcs\purge-and-paradox_old_20090130-1712.doc"

PHOENIX PURGE & THE EVE OF PARADOX

The Eve of Paradox came about as a consequence of a purge of the Phoenix House, an assassination conspiracy designed as part of a coup to deliver the Kingdom of Arden into the hands of a cabal of Athelonian exiles. Agents of the Church in the Kingdom of Ardoen were the true authors of the Purge. 

The majority of royal and noble houses of Arden had defied the Church’s interpretation of the Revelation and remained devoted to the Goddess Avon, but the patriarchal minority that embraced the Church along with the Revelation seceded to form the Kingdom of Ardoen. A purge of the Phoenix House would enable the agents of the Church to stage coups in both kingdoms, an essential step in founding the Ardoen Empire.  

The Church intended to betray the cabal, which ultimately sought to shatter the Athelon Empire, in retaliation for the Scourge -- both supported by the Church -- and reclaim their domains among the Winter Kingdoms. The Purge was designed to pit two enemies of the Church against each other, weakening both. 

At the time of the purge, the girl's parents had been companions of the paladin of the goddess. Her mother was a daughter of the Arden branch of the Phoenix House, her father was a son of the Ardoen branch of the Phoenix House. 

The girl’s mother was a maiden of the goddess, to whom the goddess had given a guardian angel in preparation for her eventual promotion to paladin. As the goddess faced her destruction, she entrusted the rebirth of her naked soul to the girl’s mother. 


"G:\Lab\.github\writing\fiction\notes\arcs\rift-potential_20100213-2012.doc"

a test of rift potential

applicable 

<>

inapplicable

the paladin -- the school’s founder -- conducted the testing of the boy and the girl and the first trial involved visiting an alternate reality by trading places with that realm’s versions of them for a day. 

the paladin used rift magic to select the target world, confirming that they both had suitable alternates. 

the ritual targeted an alternate version of the reality they were in, the girl's reality, and found a world where the girl confronted the assassin before the massacre, freed its host, and prevented the attack. no one guessed that the girl's alternate was also the boy's alternate. there was a version of the cousin the boy had been mistaken for, and the paladin had no reason to assume they were not different versions of the same person. 

the ritual required one day and was designed to test their aptitude for rift magic.  

the boy and the girl were told they would receive an imprint of their alternate's memory when they traded places with their alternates, to help orient them in that realm. it was a natural consequence of inhabiting the body and brain of their alternates. during the visit, they would have complete access to those memories, and a permanent imprint would be left on their psyches, allowing them to remember what happened during their visit once their own brains assimilated the psychic imprint. 

the girl was transposed first -- and because the ritual targeted the mind native to the target reality, the boy was transposed into the girl's body when it was his turn to swap. 

the girl lived out a day in her alternate's place, while the boy was held asleep in her body -- unable to complete the ritual and return to his own body. so, when the girl completed the ritual, she traded positions with her alternate in the boy's body. when the girl revealed her predicament, the paladin probed the boy's mind and confirmed his presence in her body. to spare the boy the shock of waking up as a girl, the paladin showed the girl how to target the boy and transfer them to their proper bodies. 

in private, the paladin and the girl debated over revealing the fact that the girl and the boy were incarnations of the same person. the girl was shocked that the paladin would suggest that she marry a male version of herself, but when he confronted her with the alternative, she had to concede his point. if they had to go through with the marriage, it might be easier on him if he did not know the truth. 

when the girl expressed concern that they would receive an imprint from being in each other’s bodies, and that this would reveal the truth to him on its own, the paladin assured her that their minds would probably reject the imprint due to associative dissonance. they might experience strange dreams, but as far as the boy was concerned, the ritual had simply failed for him and thus there were no memories for him to retrieve. 

the girl had to ask about the danger of having children together. the paladin informed her that inbreeding question had been raised when the engagement was first proposed. an exhaustive genetic analysis had found them both free of any latent defects. only a random mutation could put a child of theirs at risk. it was hardly surprising given the fact that their bloodlines had been line-bred for perfection and the preservation of distinctive house traits. the girl decided it was best to say nothing for now. 

the boy’s success at the physical displacement trial, a different test of aptitude for rift magic, confirmed the paladin’s suspicion about his origins and ensured his admission to the psychic academy on the spot. 

The unintended consequence of the his transposition was that she received an imprint of the boy while she was locked in his body. 
As a result, she assimilated his memory and the ability to teleport across the rift -- arriving in the girl's realm unexpectedly and stumbling into the girl's life.

The change itself was not that difficult, once the means to achieve it were in place. 

Because the boy had been sired by a female were, the potential to turn female had been part of the boy's infection. 

Secondary transformations were rare, and normally had to be cultivated deliberately, but the imprint had provided the perfect catalyst.

Now that the boy -- tomboy, at the moment -- had manifested it, his female form was as real and permanent a part of him as his male and tiger forms. 

She could shift back to her male body at will—and stay that way for as long as she willed it. 

The only thing she could not do was change herself back into a boy. 

It took her a bit to understand the subtle difference. 

With great effort, she focused on being male again, and her body flowed back to its previous shape—and his headache came back. 

In the version of reality where the boy was forced to kill the demon, his mother was eclipsed. 

In their versions of reality, the girl and her alternate converted their demons into angels. 
The demon had probed its way deep enough to latch on and survive in the shadow of the boy's mind, but it was in too weak a position to successfully dominate the boy from within.

The traumatic ordeal the girl's alternate had in place of the massacre surfaced as she was exploring the ruins with her friends. 

His conviction that the boy could not assimilate the imprint of the girl’s memory proved unfounded when the boy unexpectedly turned into the girl's twin. 

Unfortunately, that meant his friends saw everything when he turned into a girl in mid jump. 

She discovered that she had inherited a phobia as her mind assimilated the imprint of her alternate self. 

Her alternate had lost a close friend when they fell down an airshaft into the depths of the ruins. 

He died in her arms and she was forced to find her way back to the surface alone and in the dark. 

When the girl's imprint began to undermine the boy’s identity, the demon recognized the opportunity to displace his psyche and claim the boy's body for its own. 

<>

applied

<>


"G:\Lab\.github\writing\fiction\notes\arcs\rift-potential_old_20090130-1718.doc"

A TEST OF RIFT POTENTIAL

The paladin -- the school’s founder -- conducted the testing of the boy and the girl and the first trial involved visiting an alternate reality by trading places with that realm’s versions of them for a day. 

The paladin used rift magic to select the target world, confirming that they both had suitable alternates. 

The ritual targeted an alternate version of the reality they were in, the girl's reality, and found a world where the girl confronted the assassin before the massacre, freed its host, and prevented the attack. No one guessed that the girl's alternate was also the boy's alternate. There was a version of the cousin the boy had been mistaken for, and the paladin had no reason to assume they were not different versions of the same person. 

The ritual required one day and was designed to test their aptitude for rift magic.  

The boy and the girl were told they would receive an imprint of their alternate's memory when they traded places with their alternates, to help orient them in that realm. It was a natural consequence of inhabiting the body and brain of their alternates. During the visit, they would have complete access to those memories, and a permanent imprint would be left on their psyches, allowing them to remember what happened during their visit once their own brains assimilated the psychic imprint. 

The girl was transposed first -- and because the ritual targeted the mind native to the target reality, the boy was transposed into the girl's body when it was his turn to swap. 

The girl lived out a day in her alternate's place, while the boy was held asleep in her body -- unable to complete the ritual and return to his own body. So, when the girl completed the ritual, she traded positions with her alternate in the boy's body. When the girl revealed her predicament, the paladin probed the boy's mind and confirmed his presence in her body. To spare the boy the shock of waking up as a girl, the paladin showed the girl how to target the boy and transfer them to their proper bodies. 

In private, the paladin and the girl debated over revealing the fact that the girl and the boy were incarnations of the same person. The girl was shocked that the paladin would suggest that she marry a male version of herself, but when he confronted her with the alternative, she had to concede his point. If they had to go through with the marriage, it might be easier on him if he did not know the truth. 

When the girl expressed concern that they would receive an imprint from being in each other’s bodies, and that this would reveal the truth to him on its own, the paladin assured her that their minds would probably reject the imprint due to associative dissonance. They might experience strange dreams, but as far as the boy was concerned, the ritual had simply failed for him and thus there were no memories for him to retrieve. 

The girl had to ask about the danger of having children together. The paladin informed her that inbreeding question had been raised when the engagement was first proposed. An exhaustive genetic analysis had found them both free of any latent defects. Only a random mutation could put a child of theirs at risk. It was hardly surprising given the fact that their bloodlines had been line-bred for perfection and the preservation of distinctive house traits. The girl decided it was best to say nothing for now. 

The boy’s success at the physical displacement trial, a different test of aptitude for rift magic, confirmed the paladin’s suspicion about his origins and ensured his admission to the psychic academy on the spot. 

