i 20081206



<splinter point 0>
The splinters of the boy and girl branched off at the moment of their conception as sexual opposites. Events prior to that are identical, and differences between the splinter realities are primarily consequences of one being a boy and the other being a girl -- secondary branching is the consequence of natural fate and free will. The critical event is the soul choosing to be male or female, a choice that is confronted by a previous incarnation manifesting as a child of fusion. 



<obscured origin>
During the massacre, the girl was confronted by a demon assassin -- a man possessed by a fully autonomous demon. Her psychic potential manifested in response to the demon's attempt to penetrate her mind and harvest her soul. 

When she lashed out with that raw power, she killed the demon's host, forcing the demon to try to possess her. She resisted being dominated and as a result she took possession of the demon, unwittingly claiming it as her own. 



<unobscured origin>
The girl crossed over to the boy's splinter of reality to escape from the horror of witnessing the slaughter of her family. With her memories blocked by the trauma, she became an orphan with no known origins. The orphanage would be her home but she would become a ward of the school that took her on. 

The girl's psychic ability makes her a prodigy at the academy and earns her the special attention of the school's founder and his patron. The boy's latent psychic ability marked him for training in the arts of magic at the academy, which eventually unlocked his psychic potential. 

Initially, the only clue to the girl's past was her discovery in the ruins, which she explored whenever she could. 



<childhood detail>



<main>
The girl's nightmares are brought to the surface when she accompanies her fiance to his home. The familiarity of the boy's home and family stimulate her memory, erroding the mental blocks that protected her from her childhood trauma. 

In addition to the nightmares, she occasionally had traumatic flashbacks, visions that cause her to black out and lose time. 

The exile discovers that demon was no longer in possession of his body when the girl's blackouts give him temporary possession of her body. 

While exploring the ruins under the boy's home, she finds her way to the scene of her ordeal and begins to relive it. 

Desperate to lay her nightmares to rest, she attempts to project her consciousness into a splinter incarnation of herself. 

She had recently learned of a way to discover her own origins, by opening her mind to the splinters of reality in which she was not orphaned. 

The girl had confided her plan to discover her origins to her closest friends, and her boyfriend in particular, so she had their help figuring out how to do it. 

The group developed a spell that would blindly target a specific splinter reality, essentially allowing them to all jump to the same world thread. The plan was to refine the targeting through trial and error. The spell was supposed to keep their bodies in suspension to keep the displaced consciousness of the alternate self they visited from getting into trouble in their bodies. 

The opportunity the exile was waiting for came when the girl's attention was focused away from her own body. 

The first time she tried to probe her alternate lives, she became trapped in a street orphan version of herself who had escaped from the massacre of her family without being psychically assaulted by the demon. 

The exile had taken over the girl's body as she was working the spell and broke the pattern before her body was suspended, sending the girl's consciousness to a much closer version of herself than she had intended. 

The streets became her alternate's refuge from the orphanage. Her life on the streets led to a life in the underworld as a cat burgler and a vampire's pet. The vampire was a lord of the underworld, who, it was rumored, had made her an assassin. 

The rumor about the girl's alternate causes her to become mixed up in an assassination plot [the accidental assassin thread] while her mind is confused by the forced fusion with her alternate. 

When the exile encounters the boy and his friends, the trio realize that the girl is not in her right mind. When she escapes and disappears, they trio investigate and discover that the girl had attempted the reality-bridging spell on her own. 

The boys used the spell the girl had crafted to try and find her, assuming that her alternate had fled in her body. Of course, they did not know that the exile had taken possession of her body or that his interference had forced her to merge with her alternate instead of displacing her. 

When the boys went after the girl, they arived in the splinter of reality the girl had intended to visit, a world where the girl was never orphaned -- a world, the boy quickly discovered, where he had been born as the girl. The implications were immediately apparent, and quickly confirmed. 

They assumed that the girl had discovered the same thing and had become distracted exploring her alternate history, unaware that her alternate had somehow woken up and run off in her body. 

They also assumed that the girl had been displaced by the boy, in turn, so his companions returned to confront her in his body to tell her to return to her own body because that was the quickest way to recover her body from her alternate. 

Once back in their proper places, they were stunned to discover that the boy's body had gone missing while they were away, taken by the exile. 

The boy, trapped in the body of a version of the girl -- an alternate version of himself -- who was not orphaned, is confronted with the announcement of her engagement -- arranged by her grandmother -- and the inheritance of an estate that had been her mothers dowery.

The exile realized he could use the spell the girl created to steal the boy's body. On the surface, it targeted the reality the girl's alternate was from, but in truth it targeted her mind specifically as a product of that reality, even though it currently inhabited a body native to the boy's reality. 

The exile put his plan into immediate action, before the boy became suspicious and returned to his body. Once the switch was made, the boy was permanently cut off from his own body; if he attempted to return, he would simply trade places with the girl's alternate and claim the girl's body. 

The exile did not risk putting the displaced alternate into suspension within the girl's body, he simply rendered her unconscious by more mundane means when he freed the boy's body from it's suspension to do the swap. 

The two companions found the confused and disoriented girl-alternate and explained what was happening to her -- and what they planned to do to put things right. Unfortunately, they were still unaware of the exile's interference. 

Thanks to the companions' explanation, the alternate was able to figure out what had happened when she was displaced once again. 

The girl eventually adjusts to the fusion, and though she cannot untangle herself and return to her proper body she realizes that she can still probe her past using the spell she had already designed. 

When the girl performs the spell, she is stunned to discover herself back in her proper body. As the exile had deduced, the spell found the mind native to the target reality -- even if it happened to be in another splinter of reality.  

When the girl is told that she is a she is a splinter incarnation of the boy she was engaged to marry, she realizes she must have physically crossed from her native realm to his to escape from the horror of what happened when she was a child. 

The twice-displaced alternate of the girl quickly discovered that she was in over her head, as she became the victim of a preemptive assassination. In desperation, on the verge of death, she reached instinctively for the only way out she could find, using the fragile link created by her psychic displacement to escape death. 

The girl, having experienced one psychic fusion, understood at once what was happening when the alternate she had recently displaced from her own body was dying. To save her other self, she had to share her death and make her a part of herself. 

After absorbing the mind of the version of herself who was never orphaned, the girl realized that the boy must still be trapped in the splinter of reality her third self belonged to. 

Her companions could still visit that reality, but she could not -- at least, not unless the boy could target and displace her now that the alternate he had displaced had become a part of her. 

Her companions crossed over to try to explain to the boy that his body had somehow been cut out of the loop and warn him that he would simply trade places with the girl if he tried to return. Either way, he would still be a girl. 

The revelation forced the boy to truly face the fact that he was now a she. She had been a girl for a few days and might be one for the rest of her life. A complete tomboy, to be sure, but as female as her known alternate selves. 

The hardest part was finally facing the loss of the girl she loved. The closest she would ever come to being with the one she loved was simply being her. That epiphany was her salvation. 

Unfortunately, the girl had loved the boy just as deeply. She found the realization of their true relationship as agonizingly ironic, and even if being two sides of the same coin meant that they could not be a couple, she could not bear the thought of the man she loved simply ceasing to exist. 

She was determined to find and somehow recover his body for him, but he made a request she could not refuse; teach him to be her -- oh, and find a way to get her out of her arranged marriage! 

At first she does not understand how she can grant the tomboy's request. The tomboy, having discovered that the girl physically crossed the rift once as a child, convinces her she can do it again, on purpose. 

The girl helps her new twin come to terms with being a girl while exploring the consequences of fusing three lives together. 

Her knowledge of the underworld and attempts to forge new connections with the orphans of the city bring her to the attention of a powerful vampire and his were tiger rival. 



<displaced> 
A more suitable body presents itself to the exile during a moment of physical and psychic intimacy between the girl and boy. They had been lovers, and the demon took advantage of her relationship with him to get close enough to steal his form. 

Unable to resist her attraction to him, and her own curiosity about what it would be like to be him, she opened her mind to him and gave the demon's former host the opportunity to steal her lover's body. 

At one point, she is prompted to investigate the murder of a splinter self -- the version of herself she visited to discover her true origins. Because of the link she had established, the other version of herself was able to escape death by reestablishing the link and merging into her mind. 



<pending>
When the girl is bitten by the vampire and were tiger, she struggles with the hunger and thirst warring within her while each of her sires competes to bring her under his control. 

She takes refugue in the manor she had inherited, struggling to survive her crippling infections, until her only option is to turn inward, resigning herself to her death. 

Among the things she must face is overcoming her mental blocks and discovering the angel -- formerly the demon that tried to possess her -- within her, an ordeal that begins when the bites of a vampire and a were leave her trapped inside her body on the verge of death. 

When the demon became her angel, the girl became the goddess of the domain inhabited by the souls of the eclipsed and their descendants. Unfortunately, this was what made her vulnerable to an attack from within by one of those souls. 

The former host had been subject to attempts by some of the inner gods, previously eclipsed souls, to escape their prison by directly confronting and dominating the demon, striking at it through him. This inspired him to escape his possession and reclaim his body. 

When she overcame the demon, she instinctively eclipsed it and it turned inward. When she is forced to turn inward, she enters the realm within her and is confronted by the angel, the key to unlocking potential that will allow her to overcome the warring infections and resurrect her body. 

The vampire and the were had both been created by her angel; the former when it was an angel of the realm, the latter after its fall and transformation into a demon. 

What she becomes is the opposite of a vampire, a creature that exists on the cusp of death, only virually alive. She clung to the cusp of life, virtually dead. Instead of becoming undead, she had become undying. 

The other thing she gains from her dual infection, from the were, is the ability to change her sex and shape, anywhere between male and female, human and tiger -- though she suspects that her ability to become male is as much a consequence of having merged minds with a male version of herself. 






 




































