20070729

Project : Fallen is the Angel of Death

A seventeen-year-old girl is slain in battle to save her companions. The angel waiting to take her soul succumbs to the temptation to claim her soul and body and become independent. Angels, like demons, do not have souls of their own, existing within the souls of their creators or hosts. This angel had been placed within the girl's soul by the goddess as her guardian angel. Taking possession of the girl's soul and resurrecting her prompted the angel's fall from grace, transforming her into a demon. No longer human or angel, the demon began its immortal existence as a rogue, hunted by angels and demons alike, each seeking to bring her into their fold. She was welcomed by her former friends, but the changes in her soon spread to two of those companions. The tiger she had tamed was turned into her were familiar while the mentor she had long desired was turned into her vampire familiar, as new passions overwhelmed her natural restraint. These betrayals drove her to flee from the rest of those she cared for. In fear for what she might do to the two young men she had long been torn between, she joined the demon host. Unfortunately, the two men in question felt honor bound to fulfill the request she had made of them in her moment of horror. For the sake of her humanity, they hunted her down because she had begged them to destroy her. The one who loved her most passionately was prepared to destroy himself with her, hoping his sacrifice would purify her soul. The demon's will to survive was strong, her love for the man who confronted her was strong enough to allow her to cling to the last shreds of her humanity long enough for one last, fatal embrace. They died as lovers, consumed in the fire of his willing sacrifice, but what neither considered was the possability of a new life beginning in their final moments of intimacy, the birth of a phoenix. 

A story of temptation, fall and redemption. Drawn from curren inspirations. A short story. 

a seventeen-year-old girl 
. slain in battle to save her companions

her guardian angel 
	placed within the girl's soul by the goddess 
. the angel falls to temptation, claims her body and soul 
	angels, demons, have no souls 
	existing within the souls of their creators or hosts
. resurrecting her, transforming her into a demon
	a rogue, neither human nor angel, hunted by angels and demons alike
	each seeking to bring her into their fold

welcomed by her former friends
. new passions overwhelmed her natural restraint
. the changes in her soon spread to two of those companions
	the tiger she had tamed was turned into her were familiar 
	the mentor she had long desired was turned into her vampire familiar
. these betrayals drove her to flee from the rest of those she cared for
	in fear for what she might do 
	the two young men she had long been torn between 
. she joined the demon host
	a glimpse of humanity
	the two men in question felt honor bound to fulfill her horrified plea	they hunted her down because she had begged them to destroy her
. the one who loved her most passionately 
	prepared to destroy himself with her
	hoping his sacrifice would purify her soul
. the demon's will to survive was strong
	her love for the man who confronted her was strong enough 
	she clung to the last shreds of her humanity long enough for one last, fatal embrace
. they died as lovers
	consumed in the fire of his willing sacrifice
	neither considered the possability of sparking a new life 
	in their final moments of intimacy, the birth of a phoenix 


Rough Revision Notes

The fusion concept remains one of the strongest options for establishing the two incarnations in the same frame. The dual nature of the original incarnation, and the demon antagonist, lend themselves to an ideal prelude and pilot project, it can also be adapted to the Threshold inspiration in a way that allows the protagonists from each world to have more common origins. 

The outsider is simply a devoted gamer who plays two different characters, one male, one female. The insider is conceived in the fusion of two insiders, who are effectively her parents. The option for one to be a vampire, the other a were-tiger, is available, but not essential. The circumstances of her creation, in the midst of battle between her parents and the demon, gives witnesses the impression that she is a demon. The demon could also be the sire of the vampire and were tiger who become drawn to her, as she was born from the ashes of the demon. 

The demon was an angel of death, claiming the soul of her mother in its fall from grace. A first generation vampire is born from the blood of an angel of death, while a first generation were were is born from the flesh of an angel of death--usually an animal encouraged to attack in order to bind it to the demon. Thus, they are commonly called familiars. The were familiar takes human form generally because the demon's host was human. When the phoenix rises, she inherits the demon's familiars--the vampire that had been her mother's lover and the tiger that had been his pet. 

The phoenix's father had been the dragon's roommate and friend. The dragon pursued her initially to avenge his friend's death, but after trailing her for a bit, he realized that she was not what she appeared to be--fighting her way free of the demons that came to collect her, taking refuge from with a party of outsiders and dueling an angel before yeilding to its offer of aid. Taken before the goddess, she was determined to be a phoenix, an entity born of fusion. The dragon had to switch roles to confront her in the temple of the goddess. 

Though slain, her parents souls remained close to her, part of her and yet apart from her. 

Second Generation

Previous attempts to develop this project have produced a number of options to choose from while developing the story through the second generation. In the first generation, the protagonist attempts to resurrect her parents parthenogenically, but her attempt to grasp the souls of her slain parents seizes nothing, or rather, her own soul is grasped and so the son and daughter are actually new incarnations of herself. However, when the demon is reconstituted it presents those souls with the option to reassert themselves. When the demon attempts to destroy the children and gain sole possession of the phoenix's soul, the parents act, seizing an opening provided by the phoenix, to destroy the demon and recreate their original bodies. 

The phoenix is slain as a result, and the demon is shattered and divided between the children along with the fragments of the phoenix's own psyche. To prevent the demon from once again reconstituting itself, the children are separated, the boy taken by the father, the girl taken by the mother. Due to the relative ages of the children and their resurrected parents, mother and father present themselves as the children's mentors. This picks up many existing story elements already developed. It also leads to the events surrounding the reunion of the children. As the parents had feared, contact between the children does allow the demon to reassert itself, claiming the body of the boy and thrusting his psyche into hers as a prelude to attempting to destroy them.

The combined potential of the boy and girl is too much for the demon to overwhelm, so it takes flight, intending to find some other way of eliminating the threat they pose to its claim on their soul. 


