20081115

[revision of 2008115] Among the original inspirations for this project was the nemesis, a being responsible for the war of the gods who was anihilated, thrown into exile in the rift created by his destruction. That idea did not evaporate; it was explored as a variation on the demon within thread. 

The role of the exile in the fall of the age of gods evolved to the point where he begins as a person touched by the soul of creation, a natural avatar of low birth. He was a hunter and natural athlete trained and honed by an assassin to fight supernatural threats. His rise as a paladin strengthened his connection to the soul of creation. 

The demon of the realm felt the paladin's pull on the soul of the focus and descended upon him. His eclipse makes him aware of the true nature of reality, but when he crosses the threshold and shares his revelation, he sparks riot and war among the gods and leads to an assault upon the soul of creation mounted through an attack on him.


To apply some of those ideas to the current project, some minor adjustments are required. The concept of the touched is still applicable; although the demon's focus was destroyed, the mortal descendants of the exile inherited a sympathetic link to the demon. 

The original idea was that the father, a protege of the magus and one of the touched, attempted to prove the existence of the soul of creation. This created an opportunity for the exile to be resurrected. 

The critical revision concerns the nature of the exile. In the current revision, the demon's focus was destroyed provoking the demon and shattering reality. As the soul expired, its ashes were scattered through the rift, the minds inhabiting it reduced to empty shells of thought. 

A soul is absolute, creating itself by imposing limits upon itself, the structure of a mind though which it manifests itself and is accessible to other minds. The destruction of a soul is a curious thing, a paradox; it restores a soul to it's primal state. The end is just a new beginning. 


In the soul of creation thread involving the exile, the exile waited for one of the touched to open up to the soul of creation in order to take possession of that person's body. So, in that regard the exile was willing to sacrifice someone to escape his exile. 

The soul of creation thread originated with the dragon-phoenix model of point paradox. 

An attempt has been made to explain precisely what happens when the minds of the boy and girl open up, their combined potential acheiving an awareness of everything, including the soul of creation. Awakened by this contact, the mind of the naked soul comes into focus, acheiving self-conception in the understanding of this fusion of awareness. 

In light of the exile's history, it makes no sense for him to try to kill the person who presented the opening he was waiting for. Of course, there was no conscious thought involved. For all he knew, he had been ripped from his body, lost coherence and then found a new body within his grasp and seized it in desperation.

So, the exile has no idea who he is trying to eclipse. In the version of this event where the child is conceived in a purely psychic union of her parent's minds, the exile moves through her, literally stealing the body of one of her parents out of her grasp. In the process he interrupts her physical conception. 

In her moment of awakening, in the midst of sex and with no memory of previous events, his violent intrusion frightens her. Due to the positions they are in, she cannot take flight, so she fights. Her initial belief, reinforced by his attempt to restrain her, is that he raped her. 

It was her panic that escalated the conflict. Desperate to escape, she bites him. Because she is technically a demon in that moment, her bite turns him into her familiar. Because he is a technically a displaced soul, his essential humanity leaves him vulnerable to the effect of her bite. 

It takes a while for them to turn, experiencing full transformations and manifesting the forms they gained from each other. The partial version of their transformations was a simple change in sex. Thus, the ability to change sex is established and can be employed when the exile switches places with her. 

She follows her instincts to the girl's home where she is mistaken for the girl -- until the girl crosses the threshold and arrives home. The girl and the boy were seperated during their eclipse and thus she is the first to confront the product of their psychic union. 

~

On hearing that the first thing the child can remember is being raped, her amnesia is assumed to be a result of her traumatic ordeal. Her origin remains a mystery, and her uncanny resemblance to the girl is fascinating, but no one even suspects the truth. 

When the boy arrives, to inform the girl that an impostor had taken his place at home, he also mistakes the child for the girl, and she attacks him and identifies him as her rapist. When he mentions the impostor, the phoenix accepts that he might not be her rapist, but it raises new questions about the duplication of the boy and the girl. It is unlikely that perfect doubles of both of them should show up at the same time, suggesting that they were both created. 

The boy and girl explain what they had been engaged in at the time they were displaced, and suggest that somehow the duplicates had been created at that time, for whatever reason or purpose, and thus the phoenix was not raped -- she was just created in a rather compromising position. The question, of course, is why? When this is presented to their mentor, the magus, the phoenix is excluded from the discussion of the theory of dominion and the story of the exile. 

The magus quickly determines that the "duplicates" inhabit the original bodies of the boy and girl, confirming that they were eclipsed by the soul of creation. This was probably not intentional; it was simply a way to evacuate their bodies so that they could be possessed by something else. Technically, it made the boy and girl into a god and goddess, for which reason they would need special guidance and training to prepare for the inevitable response of the inner gods. 

The phoenix eavesdropped on the conversation and hears enough to discover that her creation might have been a side effect of an attempt to resurrect a demon. The magus theorizes that she might be an angel or a demon herself, but the demon had once been a man who embraced the soul of creation to become a god and was destroyed for it by the inner gods. Whatever survived, in the abyss, became a demon by virtue of taking possession of the boy. 

When her body turns and she takes on the boy's form, the phoenix is forced to flee for fear of being mistaken for the demon. With no idea where to turn, she decides to confront the demon herself, seeking him out at the boy's home. The exile had quickly gained the confidence of the boy's father, having in essence inspired him to aid in his resurrection. The man had assumed that the boy would simply be assimilated and become part of the reborn god. 

When the phoenix approaches, the exile confronts him and confirms most of what the magus deduced. He explains why the phoenix transformed, and admits that the creation of the phoenix was an unintended side effect. He suggests that the phoeix is a soul that participated in creation that did not evolve into an inner god and denies having any malevolent intent. In fact, he confesses his relief to discover that the souls they displaced had somehow ascended.  

Returning to the topic of the phoenix's creation, the exile concludes that she is like a fallen angel, one that became human as opposed to one that fell far enough to become a demon. Unfortunately, the exile was a demon, as the phoenix had proven by becoming his familiar. The exile demonstrates what he gained from the relationship by taking on the girl's form. In this guise, the exile set out to learn more about what the magus and the new god and goddess were up to. 

Realizing that the boy's father was the exile's accomplice, the phoenix avoids him and ends up falling in with a couple of the boy's friends. Rather than try to explain who he really is, the phoenix allows them to believe that he is the boy they know and discovers that he can tap into the memories of the boy and girl with effort. In effect, the phoenix deduces that the couple are his parents. While in the company of the boy's friends, the phoenix reverts to female form. 

Implications

Eventually, the exile will realize that the soul of the phoenix inhabited the bodies of the boy and girl, both, and that the phoenix took possession of the bodies because her physical conception had been interrupted but her mind and spirit had awakened fully formed in the midst of psychic intercourse between her parents. In order to regain his humanity, the exile had to finish what the boy and girl had started, and as a result, the phoenix would effectively become her own mother. 





