20070726

A female first incarnation  
A childhood tragedy and a demonic influence [07-17] {1}
A psychic 
A protege 
A paladin 
A confrontation with the demon and a fatal ordeal 
A goddess resurrected

1 ] The childhood ordeal is modeled on the origin story of Morgan Wildmuir, a character developed as a psychic and a vampire. An early version of her childhood ordeal featured a demon assailant she trapped in the depths of her psyche. {2} Reinterpreted, she is attacked by a fallen angel of death; a demon that spawned a vampire bloodline. To escape the prison of her mind, the demon attempts to dominate her from within. {3} As the child of a vampire and a were-tiger, her existence was proof of her parent's forbidden union. She grew up believing that her mother and father were slain in the massacre along with the extended family she had been hidden with. 

2 ] Ideas relating vampires to demons and angels have been explored, including the development of the stages of vampiric existence. The understanding of demons is such that a soul is possessed by a demon; a demon does not possess a soul of it's own. Thus, vampirism can be a form of demonic synthesis. A fallen angel of death claims a soul, becoming a demon and severing itself from the god or goddess. The demon often claims the body and dominates the mind of the soul it claims as its host, but the souls it claims after that are simply branded, transformed into vampires and enslaved to the will of their sire. 

3 ] The soul of its original host is the focus of the demon's inner sphere, the first inhabitant of that realm. The souls collected from among the demon's victims, including its dormant vampires, followed the host into the realm where the dream they shared eventually gave rise to life. 

Her confrontation with the demon awakens her psychic potential. She was taken to the temple orphanage where she was noticed by a master psychic. As a natural telepath and telekinetic, and personal protege of its founder and headmaster, she is initiated into the academy and trained to become a paladin of the goddess. 

Coming of age. The first book deals with her struggle with the demon within that begins when she returns to her mother's home to confront the ghosts of her past. 

It is only after the demon succeeds in taking possession of her that she begins to discover her full potential. To dominate her, the demon released the soul of the original host to claim her as its new host. In the demon's realm, she has the powers of a goddess, which she explores under the guidance of her mother, after they are reunited, and the former host. The former host serves as her mentor, preparing her to confront the demon and reclaim her soul. Attacking through her, the former host takes possession of her body, forcing the demon to reclaim its original host. To protect itself from an attempt by the girl to follow up the attack, it sires a new incarnation of her. 

A male second incarnation The second incarnation is a boy, born to a courtesan. As the son of a courtesan, he grew up hearing that he was "supposed" to have been a girl. The taunting that came with being a couresan's son caused him to suppress any feminine traits, including the tendency to identify with girls easier than boys. He knew very little about his father and worked quietly over the years to track him down. He was fostered by one of her mother's patrons, a knight in the service of the lord who had a son his age. The two boys were like brothers, and entered the academy together. Unknown to him, his roommate was an Outsider. 

While he was plagued with odd dreams about a girl -- his mind refused to acknowledge that in some of the dreams he was the girl -- his roommate distracted by the ordeal he was going through during the preface to the campaign that would introduce a new generation of Outsiders to the game that this world was to them. {4} The courtesan's son was shaken by an unexpected encounter with what seemed to be the girl of his dreams who had joined his mother's house. When he pursued her, he discovered that she was a vampire. The demon had adapted to its new body and the opportunities it presented. 

The curiosity sparked when the demon first confronted the hybrid had grown into an obsession. The demon had waited for the boy to grow up and infiltrated the courtesan's house intending to seduce him. His discover of her true nature forced her hand, having invested years in trying to reclaim the soul it had become obsessed with, she left her original host in possession of the girl's stolen body to take possession of the boy. Shunted once again into the demon's shadow, the boy ended up in a position to confront his former self.  


cast

the phoenix - aevi : aeve
 a boy
 a girl
the exile
 a man
 a god 
 a man
the founder - the emissary
 a man
the protege - the phenotype
 a man
 a goddess
the demon within
the vampire
the were
the dragon
 a man
 a boy

