20070807

The ideas explored (per i 20070803) have helped to identify the roles of additional characters that appear throughout development. The girl can be traced back through her mother to a were grandmother and a vampire grandfather. Her mother is associated with the founders of her were and vampire lineage, who took an interest in her upon discovering what she was -- a were vampire. The boy can be traced to his surrogate mother, who had two daughters prior to his birth. 

One change being considered addresses the ordeal the boy goes through prior to or as a consequence of merging with the girl. In spite of every attempt to place the girl and boy into the same frame, the boy's ordeal is conceptually rooted in the idea of him as a reincarnation of her. In such a case, the girl is the were vampire and her mother is a maiden were, a champion of the goddess. The ideas for that have been explored (i 20070731) in a way that fulfills almost all of the key impulses. 

The characters revealed remain in either treatment, but the reincarnation scheme preserves the natural origin of the protagonist while providing sufficient links to the goddess to account for her gaining access to the threshold. In addition, the girl has always been conceived as being displaced from her life at the age of seventeen. The original impulse for the demon within does not require a male compliment in her life. Her resurrection does not require a physical union or fusion with the boy. 

The best approach to the boy's ordeal involves him confronting the girl of his dreams as an expression of himself, an ordeal prompted by his initiation in magic. His ordeal involves his father and friends; a girl who always wanted to be more than a friend, a roommate from across the threshold, two life-long friends. His mother and older sisters also help him adapt to becoming a girl, but it is his mother's protege who truly takes him -- now her -- in hand. 

The boy was plagued with odd dreams about a girl, and his mind refused to acknowledge that in some of the dreams he was the girl. As the son of a courtesan, the boy grew up hearing that he was "supposed" to have been a girl. The taunting that came with being a courtesan's son caused him to suppress any feminine traits, including the tendency to identify with girls easier than boys. 

The boy's roommate was distracted and disoriented at times, due to the ordeal he was going through as part of the preface to the campaign that would begin when the outsiders' characters came of age. 

The girl is the daughter of a were and a vampire
Her family is attacked by the vampire's coven 
She is attacked by the coven's demon sire and escapes possession by trapping it in her shadow
Her pyschic potential was awakened by the trauma
Her heritage manifested itself during puberty
Her were nature had always been known
Her vampire nature manifested fully when she was slain and returned to life
Her hunger and thirst was exploited by the demon to gain possession of her
Her possession made her a conduit to attack the demon
Her mentor in the shadow of the demon was the demon's host
Her body was claimed by the demon's host
Her reincarnation as a boy was the demon's means of escaping destruction at the hands of its host
Her mentor is the boy's father

His psyche is haunted by the demon and the memory of the girl he once was
He was the son of a courtesan, who had two older daughters
He was initiated in the arts of the sword and sorcerery
He and two life-long friends were initiated together
His roommate at the academy was a boy from across the threshold
His mother took a girl his age on as a protege
His father taught him how to fight and hunt immortals
His dreams were haunted by memories of the girl
His academy instructors encouraged him to overcome the block against his full potential
He overcame the block and turned into a girl
Her two closest friends witnessed her transformation
Her father revealed the truth and took her to her mother 
Her mother's protege helped her adjust to being a girl
Her former roommate, unaware of the truth, pursued her 
Her struggle to cope with the transformation left her vulnerable once more to the demon
Her frustration mounts as her past and present roommates try to seduce her
Her nightmares provide her with clues to her forgotten past
Her pursuit of her past renews several plots and schemes

In this treatment, by way of her second incarnation, the girl is in the proccess of assimilating the demon into herself. Until that process is complete, she has the taint of a demon and there is the possabiliy of it fully possessing her and claiming her soul as its host. This is what other demons that take an interest in her are attempting to cause. In fully assimilating the demon, she would become the goddess of the realm in which she had been trapped during her first incarnation. 

Another consequence of being tainted by the demon is that she incorporates an aspect of the goddess of her native realm, and it is this that grants her access to the threshold and causes the goddess to regard her as part avatar and part daughter. This potential was immediately recognizable in her first life and resulted in her adoption by the goddess and her training as a paladin during that life. In the demon's realm, she was temporarily reunited with her real mother. 

The events of her first life encompass the inspirations of Abyss and Unpromised. The events of her second life encompass the inspirations of Avatars and the Threshold. A few related projects are also absorbed. As a result, several books could be realized in the process of completing this project. Because of the campaign reset, the dragon has a role in both lives. In the second life, she is plagued by feelings she had for the dragon in her first life. 

Genesis : Adopted from i 20070731

The oldest themes dealt with the girl's traumatic childhood ordeal, a confrontation with a demon, that leaves her an orphan haunted by the death of her mother and tormented by the demon she somehow managed to banish to the depths of her own psyche. The girl was conceived by a were-tiger and a vampire. 

Her father was a vampire who clung to his humanity. His longing for the life he remembered led him to discover what foods and drinks he could tolerate, and in proper combinations even lessened his dependency on blood. Over time, he was able to expand his diet to the point of restoring his body's metabolism and passing for human. He also discovered that it reduced his sensitivity to light and flame. The more vital he became, the easier it was to resist the compulsions of his vampiric nature, and this allowed him to escape from the coven he had been raised into. He met and fell in love with a woman he later discovered was a were-tiger who, like him, had fled from her own kind. 

The tiger bloodline her mother descended from served the goddess as her champions, making it their duty to protect mortals from threats like vampires. The vampire bloodline her father descended from had been established in the domain of the goddess, coming into conflict with the champions every time a mortal devoted to the goddess was slain or turned. They overcame their differences, and her blood provided him the one thing he had been missing. Her blood enhanced his restorative regeneration, restoring his life and fertility, while being bled suppressed her were nature and allowed them to conceive a child. Unfortunately, they were tracked down by their own kind and separated from each other soon after. 

Through all of this, they managed to keep each other's true nature a secret from their own kind. Unfortunately, the vampire's sire suspected something amiss and investigated several years later. If the father had not been in the habit of checking up on his daughter, his coven would have never stumbled upon the truth. The mother had been able to keep the father's true nature a secret from her family, who believed he was a mere mortal man. Unfortunately, her true nature could not be concealed from the vampires, when they finally tracked her down. The father was destroyed, for conspiring with the enemy, and forced into the final stage of vampirism. The mother's house clan were slaughtered and she was possessed by the angel of death, itself. 

The mother was slain by her daughter when the girl defended herself from the demon. The girl was traumatized by the massacre and taken under the wing of her mother's patron and mentor. The demon, trapped in the depths of the girl's psyche, spent the next ten years plotting her possession, waiting for the opportunity to strike her down from within. Having been possessed by the demon at the time her body was slain, the girl's mother had joined the other souls it had claimed within the demon's domain, where a different reality had evolved. When the girl is finally possessed from within, she is reuinted with her mother in that realm. 

