20070727

[revisited 20070731]

The idea of complementary incarnations being conceived in alternate realities provides a common origin and time frame, and the involvement of the demon as presented below even allows the mother and daughter to be brought into the boy's world when he is seven. It remains a difficult idea to implement, however. 

It depends on a very subtle and complicated set of definitions for gods, angels and demons as expressions of psychic and spiritual potential. 

The Threshold concept provides for a context for establishing the dreamer in the dream on the threshold of existence through the creation of an intelligence with godlike qualities and a role in the creation of a reality both anchored in a non-corporeal soul. 

Unfortunately, the premise is extrememly difficult to articulate and possibly harder to understand given the way it is presented at this point. 

Inspiration

One version of the project treated the demon as an aspect of the goddess, an angel exiled from grace by the rejection of the goddess. The general idea has been expressed in more detail elsewhere. 

The idea of the protagonist confronting a male incarnation of herself from another realm was proposed as an alternative to split or staggered incarnations in the same realm. In a story where the demon was formerly an angel of the goddess, the change in nature is the result of the goddess's internal conflict, making the demon a personal demon, a "darker" aspect of herself. It would follow that the demon's realm is a "darker" aspect of her realm, a different version of the same reality. That lends itself to a slightly different working concept for the story. 

The circumstances concerning the protagonist's conception produce different results in the two realities. In one, she is conceived as a girl, but in the other she is conceived as a boy. Many ways of accomplishing this have been explored, and each has yeilded unsatisfactory results. Should the protagonist be an incarnation of the soul of creation? If so, the following design emerges...

The demon had been banished by the goddess, internally. The only place it could go was into the aspect of the realm that was within its domain. In dividing herself, the goddess had divided creation, creating an alternate reality in which the demon was the personification of the goddess -- or rather, the god. This difference in persona mandated certain differences in reality, among them a shift in religious doctrine, a different purpose and a very different relationship with the individual chosen to fulfill that purpose.

One solution to the demon's problem was to find a new host and confront the goddess as an independent god. In the dual reality model, the same individual could be chosen by the goddess and the demon, by one as the mother of a human incarnation of the goddess, the other as a host for the demon itself. Thus, in one realm the goddess is born a human girl while in the other she is born a human boy, sired by the god. The flaw in the plan, of course, is that the protagonist inherits the goddess's personal demon as part of her -- or his -- psychic potential. 

The division of the two realms was a conseqence of the psychic rift between the goddess and the demon, so the demon's host becomes the god of the alternate realm. The girl, living in the realm of the goddes, contains the dormant mind of the demon in the depths of her psyche, and thus potential access to the god's realm. The demon represents psychic potential the goddess denied herself, projecting it as an angel and giving it the capacity to confront her "in person." In the normal fashion, the girl struggles with this personal demon as a part of herself. 

It is entirely reasonable to include the angel of death inspiration, concerning the origin, lineage and nature of vampires -- assuming that other angels had fallen to the temptation to become independent entities. Other modifications to vampire nature remain valid in this context, and as children of the fallen, the angels of death, they are natural enemies of the goddess. The girl's mother, chosen of the goddess, is a prime target. As the paladin of the goddess, she is the one charged with destroying the fallen when they come to light.  

An angel of death leads an attack upon the House of Phoenix when the girl is seven. It is a massacre, and many of the goddess's champions, including her paladin, are turned into vampires. Turned by the angel of death himself, the paladin rises as a first-generation vampire who reestablishes herself as a courtesan after her fall from grace. Thus, she and her daughter are distanced from the House of Phoenix, even though the girl is seen as the best hope to restore the House of Phoenix. In spite of being turned, the girl's mother remains loyal to her promise to the goddess, to protect the human incarnation of the goddess. 

The god raised the boy as his son, training him personally. When the boy was ready, the god implemented the next step in his plan to confront the goddess, using the boy to cross over to the realm of the goddess. There, the god faced two tasks. He needed to reacquaint himself with the domain of the goddess, from which the demon had been exiled, and assimilate the aspect of himself native to her realm -- the girl's mother. He was not surprised that the boy turned into a girl upon entering the realm of the goddess. Having been born in exile from his true self, it was only natural for his true nature to express itself upon emerging from exile. 

Having no idea that the goddess would take human form intentionally, he had expected to use the boy to "bring down" the goddess. The god was not prepared to discover that a human incarnation of the goddess already existed in this realm, when they finally located his native aspect. He watched in bemusement as the girl took the female boy under her wing and helped him cope and come to terms with becoming a girl.  

Additional Impulses to Sort

The ideas above offer suggestions for handling material from the Avatars inspiration, and an option for also integrating material from the Threshold inspiration. Other notes have explored the adaptation of material from the Unpromised and Naked Dancer inspirations to fit within the scope of the Threshold. The question to be resolved before integrating Threshold elements is whether the domain of the goddess is a domain of the game or if it is derived from it for the purposes of the game. The concepts concerning the association developed between the Dragon and the Phoenix can support either possability, but it is plausable that the game prompts the creation and manipulation of a third domain in which neither version of the protagonist is reflected, allowing them to step into a void as players do. 

Keeping in mind the Envelope of Paradox, all realms border upon the Thresold. Technology allowed the inhabitants of the Dragon's realm to bridge the Threshold. 
 

