20070809

Among the questions that remain or have been raised, is the matter of how the game interacts with or is imposed upon the protagonist's reality and how that limits the scope of player characters. One of the reasons for having both incarnations established in the same frame is to give both incarnations access to the same player character and for him to inherit a body from one of them in the process of being transferred from his world into the game world. Using the established ideas, an angelic or demonic expression of the soul of creation is not a proper incarnation so it can be treated as a naked soul up to the point where a proper incarnation (or two) is born. 

The soul of creation is the focus, or key note, of the realm -- a reality created by the participation of its inhabitants encompassed by the mind of the phoenix. The soul of creation can be considered the host of the phoenix, an angel inspired by the dragon. Upon encountering a human who embodied the things the phoenix identified with or admired most in humanity, the phoenix would develop a fascination with and attachment to that person. In a case where the phoenix has developed an obsession with becoming human she might unintentionally take possession of a human she identified with, with the unusual consequence of turning that human into a god or goddess of the realm. 

A quirk of the dominion concept makes the player characters gods of the realm by virtue of a kind of angelic or voluntary possession. Assuming that the phoenix took possession of a human host, the human becomes a god or goddess and the phoenix becomes a demon. Being a demon, the phoenix herself is the angel of death, the progenitor of were and vampire bloodlines. The god or goddess would be unique in this case by virtue of being the only other native god in the realm -- all other gods being guests. She would also serve as a direct conduit to the phoenix and thus the soul of creation. It is at this point that it becomes apparent that the human in question would in fact have been male. 

The scenario that makes most sense is that the phoenix became interested in a man and fell in love with him. The phoenix, by virtue of dominion, is an angelic goddess, so the man in question was probably chosen as her champion and was slain while acting as her champion. Unwilling to let him die, the phoenix unintentionally took possession of him, in one sense falling and becoming human, becoming a demonic goddess and turning him into a god of the realm. Asserting herself, his body becomes female in her possession and he manifests a new body identical to the old one. The phoenix ends up torn between the dragon and the god, one with a key to her mind the other with a key to her soul. 

The dragon is responsible for bringing the "age of gods" to an end, leaving the world with a single god and goddess to heal the damage that resulted from the cataclysm that came to be known as the War of the Gods. In addition to suspending game play, the dragon advanced the time frame, allowing thousands of years of subjective time in the realm to pass in order to give the phoenix time to work out a way of securing the system against exploitation. The god and goddess, each for their own reasons, would not allow themselves to conceive a child together. At the dawn of a new campaign, however, the god took a human mistress and sired a male incarnation of the soul of creation. 

It was an accident that occured in a moment of passion, and it prompted the goddess to conceive a female incarnation of the soul of creation by reflex. In order to give the child legitimacy, the goddess assumed a human identity and married a knight she had taken as a lover. Her initial assumption was that her lover was the father of her daughter, just as the god assumed that his son was conceived naturally with his mistress. For this reason, neither suspected that the boy and girl were two incarnations of the same soul. The children were expected to have extraordinary potential, and plans were made to ensure that they were prepared and trained accordingly. 

The girl's childhood trauma remains a key impulse in the story. All she knows is that she witnessed her mother's murder -- the memories of that night haunted her nightmares but eluded her waking memory. 

Tentatively, the two incarnations could become step-siblings, but alternatively the surrogate parents might actually be siblings or cousins themselves. What is clear is that the surrogate parents have some innate connection that played a part in their being chosen as companions of the god and goddess. The general idea is that the girl's father took the boy on as his protege and the girl became a protege of the boy's mother. 


 