Duet & Singular Duality Notes



Dhani	The Threshold Boundaries. Seen one way, there are boundaries. Seen another way, there are thresholds. In essence, they are both. Gates, must be defined and maintained. Gates are held by living anchors. The secret of gates is that they are people. That is the down side of inheritance, but it is also why gates have to be "known." To pass through a gate it to engage in intimacy infinitely deeper than sex. It is a devouring embrace. 

Avon Vea - Anvea - Av

Avon Mai
Part I	Avon Mnao
Part II	Avon Mnai

Avon Nai
Part I	Avon Nao
Part II	Avon Nai

Avon Vai
Part I	Avon Vao
Part II	Avon Vai

Avon Dai
Part I	Avon Dao
Part II	Avon Dai


Shades of Truth

Av is the Avon daughter. Av was conceived by Annae and Aeph, then implanted in Avon by AEA medical pesonnel. Av and Avon were genetically identical, but the temporal displacement discouraged anyone from recognizing them as the same person. Learning the truth was a shock to all Annae, Aeph and Avon, who conspired to obscure the truth. 

Avon could not know her name until Av was promised, so her claim to the domain of Tegal was never officialy recognized in the guise of Avon, who held it in trust for her daughter. Her stint as regent was tragic enough to discourage her from asserting the claim she had run away from as Av. Avon remained unpormised and for this reason was regarded as a suitable candidate for the mantle of Avon Dai. 

Av was born androgyne female, but having spent her childhood largely among humans, she adopted a human female identity--as a tomboy. Annae's daughter self, Ann, lost her complement in the massacre, in the original approach, but in this one she might not. As a duet, they can be an influence in Av's pairing with her nemesis, Anvea, a product of a split-shift. Anvea manifests when Av and her peers gather for Arla Liymb. 

Anvea's appearance shocks the parents and threatens to disrupt everything. In spite of Anvea's claims, the evidence proving her identical to Av identifies Annae and Aeth as their genetic parents. Anvea obtained her evidence by hacking into secure naval medical databases, so what she knows is already known to government agencies. 

Anvea developed a more aggressive, masculine identity than Av. In spite of androgyne female body, Anvea is very much a boy and uses this masculinity to get intimately close to Av, becoming male to complement and cement Av's shift to female. In one variation, this is an insidious emergence, a product of the psychic assault Av endured as a child. 

Ash & Ember

Naming conventions change as a result of these perspective shifts. The idea of her nemesis being born from within, adopting a male aspect to compliment her female identity, becomes a prime plot element. There was a notion that being split into complements starts the process that opens her to paradox. The duet has a kind of love-hate relationship, competing with each other for possession of their soul--and the rights and privileges of their identity, yet complementing each other perfectly. 

