20070821

Among the original inspirations for this project was the nemesis, a being responsible for the war of the gods who was anihilated, thrown into exile in the rift created by his destruction. That idea did not evaporate; it was explored as a variation on the demon within thread. 

To apply some of those ideas to the current project, some minor adjustments are required. The concept of the touched is still applicable; although the demon's focus was destroyed, the mortal descendants of the exile inherited a sympathetic link to the demon. 

The idea of a protege of the magus and follower of the god who attempted to breed an avatar of the god can be realized in the father. In a sense, the father, who was himself a bit touched -- and like the touched -- was being influenced to provide the exile with a suitable host. 

The critical revision concerns the nature of the exile. In the current revision, it was the demon's focus that was destroyed provoking the demon and shattering reality. As the soul expired, its ashes were scattered through the rift, the minds inhabiting it reduced to empty shells of thought. 

A soul is absolute, creating itself by imposing limits upon itself, the structure of a mind though which it manifests itself and is accessible to other minds. The destruction of a soul is a curious thing, a paradox; it restores a soul to it's primal state. The end is just a new beginning. 



The exile waited for the boy to open up to the phoenix in order to take possession of him. So, in that regard the exile was willing to sacrifice someone to escape his exile. 

In light of the exile's history, it makes no sense for him to try to kill the phoenix when he takes advantage of her awakening to take over one of the bodies she eclipsed. He does enough harm simply by interrupting her physical conception. Instead, it is more likely that he would want to hold on to her, and ends up frightening her away instead. Her initial belief, based on waking up in the midst of sex with no memory of who she was, is that he raped her. 

It ends up being the phoenix who initiates the violence, biting off a peice of him in her escape. Of course, as he is technically a demon at that point, that bite of flesh turns her into a were-familiar. Being human, it simply gives her the ability to become a reflection of him. Of course, it takes a while for her to turn, and when she does the exile gains her form in return. Thus, the ability to change sex is established and can be employed when the exile switches places with her. 

Before that happens, the phoenix follows her instincts to the girl's home where she is mistaken for the girl until the girl arrives home. She and the boy were seperated during their eclipse and thus she is the first to confront the phoenix. On hearing that the first thing the phoenix can remember is being raped, her amnesia is taken for granted, though the mystery of her origin remains. It is assumed that she was subtly led to the girl's home by people who mistook the phoenix for her. 

When the boy arrives, to inform the girl that an impostor had taken his place at home, he also mistakes the phoenix for the girl, and she attacks him and identifies him as her rapist. When he mentions the impostor, the phoenix accepts that he might not be her rapist, but it raises new questions about the duplication of the boy and the girl. It is unlikely that perfect doubles of both of them should show up at the same time, suggesting that they were both created. 

The boy and girl explain what they had been engaged in at the time they were displaced, and suggest that somehow the duplicates had been created at that time, for whatever reason or purpose, and thus the phoenix was not raped -- she was just created in a rather compromising position. The question, of course, is why? When this is presented to their mentor, the magus, the phoenix is excluded from the discussion of the theory of dominion and the story of the exile. 

The magus quickly determines that the "duplicates" inhabit the original bodies of the boy and girl, confirming that they were eclipsed by the soul of creation. This was probably not intentional; it was simply a way to evacuate their bodies so that they could be possessed by something else. Technically, it made the boy and girl into a god and goddess, for which reason they would need special guidance and training to prepare for the inevitable response of the inner gods. 

The phoenix eavesdropped on the conversation and hears enough to discover that her creation might have been a side effect of an attempt to resurrect a demon. The magus theorizes that she might be an angel or a demon herself, but the demon had once been a man who embraced the soul of creation to become a god and was destroyed for it by the inner gods. Whatever survived, in the abyss, became a demon by virtue of taking possession of the boy. 

When her body turns and she takes on the boy's form, the phoenix is forced to flee for fear of being mistaken for the demon. With no idea where to turn, she decides to confront the demon herself, seeking him out at the boy's home. The exile had quickly gained the confidence of the boy's father, having in essence inspired him to aid in his resurrection. The man had assumed that the boy would simply be assimilated and become part of the reborn god. 

When the phoenix approaches, the exile confronts him and confirms most of what the magus deduced. He explains why the phoenix transformed, and admits that the creation of the phoenix was an unintended side effect. He suggests that the phoeix is a soul that participated in creation that did not evolve into an inner god and denies having any malevolent intent. In fact, he confesses his relief to discover that the souls they displaced had somehow ascended.  

Returning to the topic of the phoenix's creation, the exile concludes that she is like a fallen angel, one that became human as opposed to one that fell far enough to become a demon. Unfortunately, the exile was a demon, as the phoenix had proven by becoming his familiar. The exile demonstrates what he gained from the relationship by taking on the girl's form. In this guise, the exile set out to learn more about what the magus and the new god and goddess were up to. 

Realizing that the boy's father was the exile's accomplice, the phoenix avoids him and ends up falling in with a couple of the boy's friends. Rather than try to explain who he really is, the phoenix allows them to believe that he is the boy they know and discovers that he can tap into the memories of the boy and girl with effort. In effect, the phoenix deduces that the couple are his parents. While in the company of the boy's friends, the phoenix reverts to female form. 

Implications

Eventually, the exile will realize that the soul of the phoenix inhabited the bodies of the boy and girl, both, and that the phoenix took possession of the bodies because her physical conception had been interrupted but her mind and spirit had awakened fully formed in the midst of psychic intercourse between her parents. In order to regain his humanity, the exile had to finish what the boy and girl had started, and as a result, the phoenix would effectively become her own mother. 





