20070811


Revision (Eclipsed 20070819)

The fusion itself was triggered by a physical and psychic union, and the phoenix was created in the fusion, but her story is separate from that of the children. The fact that a story can be established in the spontaneous origin of the phoenix proves that she can be introduced without a past and the story can be devoted entirely to the self-determination that is the core theme of the character. She is, however, shaped by the experiences of the entities that brought her into existence. Thus, the mother and father can absorb threads originally intended for the phoenix, the boy or the girl. 

In adapting threads for this approach, the simplest circumstances are preferred. The mother could be the daughter of a maiden of the local goddess and a survivor of the temple massacre. The ordeal would have awakened her psychic abilities and resulted in her adoption by an aunt. The father could be the apprentice of a hunter, a protege of his father's. Their paths cross while the mother is stuggling with the demon of her past. The mother had eclipsed a demon that once attempted to take possession of her, and when that demon fought its way back to the surface and took possession of her lover, the father, she allowed the demon to rape her in order to launch a psychic attack to drive the demon out. 

In the heat of the moment, while deeply twined in physical and psychic intercourse, the couple conceive the phoenix in fusion. The phoenix is conceived in the understanding of her parents, thus manifests initially in a male and female form, but the demon seized one of the bodies for itself and tried to slay the phoenix. In the middle of the murder investigation, the phoenix resurrects and flees from the morgue, prompting the belief that she was a new fledged vampire. Thus, the vampires of the city move swiftly to bring her into the fold. It quickly becomes apparent to the vampires that she is something else entirely, and during the day she simply wanders out of their nest. 

In the initial struggle with the demon, the demon had claimed the male half of the phoenix to use its strength to overpower the phoenix, and her close resemblance to her mother resulted in the authorities informing her mother's family of their daughter's murder. When the couple resurfaced a few days later, the family was shocked and the authorities notified that she was safe and sound. On visiting the scene of the incident, the couple confirmed that the murdered girl had something to do with what had happened to them during the struggle with the demon. They official report, that the victim had risen as a vampire, explained nothing the couple had experienced. 

When the phoenix follows her instincts to the girl's home, she is mistaken for her mother until the girl arrives to confront her. On close inspection, subtle differences in their appearance are noted and her presence in broad daylight refutes the notion that she is a vampire. The next day, when the boy arrives and mistakes the phoenix for his lover, the phoenix mistakes him for the boy she remembered killing her and attacks. The couple is stunned to learn that, apart from some superficial differences, the "murderer" was a duplicate of him. By his actions, they can conclude that he was possessed by the demon, but again there is no explaining their replacement. 

The boy, who has no memory of events from the time he was possessed to the moment the couple awoke from psychic intercourse in what seemed like a drug induced distortion of reality. The girl's recollection of events was all they had to go by, and events were making what she remembered seem more and more impossible. The only solid lead they had was the phoenix, who seemed to have appeared out of nowhere. Being a mystery to herself, the phoenix was more than willing to cooperate with the couple in finding answers. Posing as the girl's cousin, she focused on sorting herself out and trying to remember who she really was while the couple searched in vain for other leads. 

The boy's mentor discovered that, however improbable, the phoenix had been trained in his own fighting style as if she were a boy. She responded to this by admitting that she sometimes had the feeling that she was supposed to be a boy. Though she had been deprived of her male form, the phoenix was still imprinted with the experiences of her father. When further experimentation proved that the phoenix was equally trained as the girl had been, the man suggests that the phoenix had been created from the couple, and given what had happened to her, she was probably an expendable byproduct. This prompts the girl to confide what had happened as best as she could remember it. 

There was only one possible conclusion. Somehow the demon had fused their bodies together to create one specifically for its use, and discarded the remains -- possibly formed because the girl had been pregnant at the time and did not know it. When asked to explain how they could still be alive, the man explained the theory of dominion, stating that the demon's host had to be the soul of creation, and through possession the couple had become a god and goddess of the realm. The phoenix was as much the demon's child as she was theirs; created by it as part of their destruction, she had inherited some demonic traits like immortality, the man hypothesized. 

The phoenix, eavesdropping on this discussion, became alarmed when they began speculating about the influence the demon might have over her and how to deal with her if she became a threat. Though the questions were motivated by the couple's concern for the phoenix, she retreated before that was emphasized and ran. The demon had been waiting for such an opportunity, having learned of her resurrection and become curious to find out why she had survived. As the progenitor of the established vampires he had their help in learning about her and tracking her down to recapture her. When confronted by him, she demands to know his intentions. 

The demon takes her under his wing, admitting that she had been an unintended consequence of his attempt to acquire a new body, attacking her only because he did not know what she was and had assumed that she was a threat. The demon did not confirm the hunter's theory, because the demon had a theory of its own it had not intention of revealing. Instead, he asserted that he was interested in taking her as his mate and protecting her. Accepting his offer would certainly prove her parent's fears about her, but refusing him would make him and all of his vampires her enemies as well. She was surprised when her refusal was met without violence. 

The demon was determined to win her over, and had nothing to gain at this point by using direct force. Instead, the demon turned its attention to her parents. The demon could become her twin by simply altering the sex of the body it had stolen from the phoenix. The manifestation of two complementary bodies had been an unconscious expression of the phoenix's understanding of her parents as two perspectives that complemented each other. Returning to the parents in her place, the demon encouraged their confidence while subtly encouraging the hunter's suspicions. The demon wanted to undermine the parent's confidence in the hunter by provoking him into an attack. 

The phoenix fell in with a group that had formerly been friends of her mothers, at a time when she had run away from home and lived on the streets. The psychic that had taken her mother under his wing, to train her as a spy and assassin, was suspicious enough to detect that she was not quite the girl she appeared to be, and thus willing to accept the story the phoenix gave to explain herself. She was no more interested in becoming a spy or assassin than her mother, but she did need someone to help her prepare to take on the demon. She quickly learned that the vampires and the street psychics were hostile to each other, and revealing that the demon was their source made him a worthy target. 

The boy had gained psychic abilities as part of becoming a god, and the only person the girl knew capible of training a psychic was her old mentor. Their visit, with the demon in tow, reveals that the demon is able to pose as the phoenix upsetting the demon's plan and reuniting the phoenix with her parents. 

Expansion (Eclipsed)

The man and woman, pursued relentlessly by a demon, attempted to face the demon by merging together and pooling their resources, only to be eclipsed by the conception of a child of fusion. The physical, mental and spiritual union of the parents touched upon the very soul of creation and provided the means for it to instantly realize itself as a person. In that instant of self-possession, the phoenix eclipsed her parents and reintroduced them into creation as the god and goddess. In the days that followed, the phoenix confronted the world as a complete amnesiac, informed by the experience of her parents but knowing almost nothing of herself. 

For her parents, resurfacing in the world was a bit like wandering out of a dream. They were like ghosts when their escape from the ruins began, becoming solid and real by morning as they emerged from underground in the city. The phoenix, perceived as a rogue demon or angel of death, was forced to fight for passage through the host of demons entrenched in the ruins. Stunned by the abilities the fight aroused in her, she arrived in the city still naked and disoriented, oblivious to the stares she received. Her form was that of a nymph, but it was also a form commonly adopted by angels and demons. A visit by any one of which was considered an ill-omen. 

In her first confrontation with the demon, the phoenix is brutally slain. The phoenix is mistaken for a demon by the humans who stumble upon the blood bath -- until investigators determine that the blood is all hers. Her resurrection provides her with her name, and her immediate arrest prevents her from falling immediately into the hands of her assassin. On confronting her, the demon had suspected that the phoenix was an angel or demon, so it had retreated into the shadows, to observe. The demon had no idea how she was created, but it had known she was created from the two humans it had been hunting when tracking them had led to her.  

The demon had two tests it could perform to determine her nature. It fed her flesh to a tiger and her blood to a retired assassin. When both were turned, the demon concluded that the phoenix was a demon -- most likely summoned in desperation to fulfill the mission the two humans had been on when the demon was charged to eliminate them. If they had given their lives to create the phoenix, her main purpose was to hunt down demons and immortals as they had. That made her a valuable weapon, if she could be controlled. Assuming that its true mission had been to stop the humans from succeeding in their mission, the demon needed to bind the phoenix or destroy her. 



Loose Threads


...and brings her to the attention of the demon's creator -- an entity known as the dragon, an artificial intelligence created in the void of her soul. 