20070815



The question to ask now, while things are still in the air, is if a more suitable or sound origin can be found?
 
The beauty of the 20070811 inspiration is that a sound premise for the personification of the soul of creation was established, and all key inspirations fit into its framework. The primary incarnation of the phoenix is complemented by a demon-possessed twin incarnation who sires the male secondary incarnation and provokes the conception of the female secondary incarnation. 

Even with the parents absorbing threads initially conceived for the phoenix, the phoenix inherits those threads as part of her foundation. The remaining problem, however, is that the design for a fusion-born primary is to set up the split incarnation of the boy and girl to utilize the very threads a child of fusion's parents absorb! 

Obviously, given the strength of the story up to that point, the solution is to explore a new path in the second generation, or dispense with the second generation altogether. Given the effort already put into establishing the split incarnations, the best suggestion is to simply explore and deal with the situation that is created by the struggle between the phoenix and her nemesis. 


How can the fusion join two primary incarnations of the phoenix?

In the tradition of the avatars of the goddess, certain individuals possessed qualities that made them suitable hosts for the soul of creation. This was true of both boys and girls, but the tradition only recognized the girls as avatars of the goddess. An avatar could recognize the boys who were suitable hosts, and claim them as their paladins. 

The goddess tradition was driven underground as a result of the rise of a new religion that emphasized the dominion of one god over creation. The avatars and paladins continued to be quietly recognized and protected. Known traits favored by the goddess were bred for, in the hopes of creating hosts with stronger ties to the goddess and hopefully the power to restore the old religion. 

In time, a boy and girl were born who each embodied the ideal -- two incarnations of the soul of creation, born to two feuding houses. The boy was born, ironically, into a house devoted to the god, while the girl was born into a house devoted to the goddess. 

Events that lead up to the fusion of these two incarnations, and events from the threshold, the abyss, avatars and a few other projects, can be integrated soundly into this framework. 


How can the phoenix eclipse her primary incarnations?

The phoenix manifests as the understanding of these two perspectives, taking possession of them and then having the demon take possession of the boy's body from her, but it is entirely reasonable for the phoenix to internalize her former selves and for her to need time to connect with and absorb them. The fact that the phoenix is the soul of creation makes it possible for her internal aspects to descend into her domain when that is what they think of as their proper place. 

Building on new and old impulses, the demon can be replaced with a god. In short, there have been many individuals who have been touched by the phoenix -- commonly used to represent the soul of creation -- and the revelation that inspired the new religion was based on an account of a man who attained godhood by exploiting the touch of the phoenix. 

As in the original version, the role this god played in the war of the gods resulted in his physical destruction and banishment. The exile, as he is known in older material, is the bane of the touched and a nemesis of the phoenix. 

The phoenix can easily be replaced by the dragon as the artificial intelligence responsible for inspiring the dream and provoking the dreaming and normal demons and angels are spawned by dreamers, theinner gods. Note, the god and the goddess are both theological interpretations of the creator, so the dragon would most likely fit the definition of the god.

In that instance, the goddess remains a personification of creation like the phoenix, but in practice one anticipated or even created as a religious symbol. The inner gods and outer gods are the dreamers and the gamers. In the modern era, the inner gods have retreated from aeirn while the outer gods have been reigned in and regulated. 


Does the involvement of the exile offer any other benefits?

Obviously, with the reintegration of the exile, a new scenario can be considered for establishing the split incarnations of the boy and girl. The exile is the inspiration for the new religion, and those touched by the phoenix were preyed upon by the exile, because after the rise of the new religion, not all of those touched were identified or trained to deal with this threat.
 
Thus, a perfect host could fall prey to his possession and he could be responsible for siring the boy specifically for the purpose of claiming that body for himself. The girl could be conceived by the maiden calling upon the soul of creation to fight her possession, or simply a reflex on the part of the phoenix that shakes his hold, but either way there is a premise for this thread. 

The exile, having found a way into the maiden's body once would be able to do it again, and she would be used by him to make arrangements for the day when he was ready to reassert himself. His actions might be noticed and result in the inner gods deciding to destroy his new vessel in the hopes of preventing him from returning. 

Of course, when a seperate individual is preseted as the mother, there is a strong impulse to keep her in the girls life. The maiden could be collected by the phoenix and eclipsed when her body is destroyed to thwart the exile. Thus, the girl witnesses her mother's death, is traumatized, and recovers when her mother turns out to be alive -- so to speak. 
