20070903

In previous attempts to establish a character divided into male and female incarnations, many different and complicated idea were explored. The complexity of these ideas made for untenable stories, however, and a desire to find a simple and elegant solution prompted numerous revisions. In the process, a possability presented itself that, when simplified, provided that elegant solution. 

The child's mother was raped by a man possessed by a demon. The details of his possession and his normal relationship to the child's mother, and what led up to her rape can be worked out as needed. What matters is that she fought and as a consequence of biting him, she was turned into a familiar. She also became pregnant. As the pregnancy progressed, the mother became unable to assume the father's form. The child conceived during this rape was also affected by the mother's and the demon's transformations. As the product of their union, the child's male and female forms were identical apart from sex. 

The child was raised by her mother as a girl, but discovered the ability to become a boy and used it outside her home to pose as a boy. When she was seven, her sire tracked her down, and in the guise of her mother, tried to dominate her. Her instinctive response, dividing into seperate incarnations while fighting this psychic rape, caused the demon to become trapped in the depths of her psyche, freeing her father from its possession. The boy was taken under his father's wing and raised apart from the girl, both halves emotionally scarred by the traumatic ordeal. 

The transformations the child had taken in stride were eventually forgotten, the boy and girl revising their memories of childhood to accomodate their genders. Only when they were reunited, neither suspecting they were the same person originally, did the demon trapped between them find a way to reassert itself. In a moment of intimacy, it took possession of the boy. Divided, the boy and girl were essentially human, and vulnerable to the effects of vampire and were bites. During the girl's quest to rescue her lover, she fell prey to a vampire and a ware, infected by both. 

Her turning was a terrible ordeal that left her a prisoner in her own body until she was exposed to enough light to become a were vampire. Unfortunately, she could not bear what her new nature demanded of her and attempted to take her own life by facing the dawn. Following the destruction of her body, she was drawn into the shadow of the demon where her other half was eclipsed. Working together, they were able to drive the demon out of his body which soon proved capable of accomodating them both. The boy's initial transformation into a girl was witnessed by his friends. 

The boy adapted to being a girl with the help of his other half, but in the process, the division between their psyches finally came undone. The girl was more self-possessed, so the core of their shared identity as the phoenix was female, and the female form was better suited to her androgyny. By this point, the phoenix had become involved in the prelude to a war. Demons stalked her, determined to rouse the demon the phoenix had eclipsed. But the demons were just the weapons of war, and one of the phoenix's companions sought to remove them from play. 

Complications

The division of the child into male and female incarnations makes a little more sense if it is done intentionally; it is a rational thing for a parent to do to protect the child. As a child, the ability was easily concealed by clothing, but at the time of testing that ability would be discovered. Rather than force the child to choose a sex, division would allow the child to grow up as a boy and a girl. That creates as many complications as it resolves, however... an uncomplicated division of a character into male and female complements remains elusive. 



