He sacrificed himself to bind the demon. 
She stumbled into the trap and was possessed, setting the demon free. 
The souls of the demon's victims were trapped within the demon, giving rise to a new realm. 
The captive souls were immortal, the inner gods of the new realm. 
He took her under his wing, as his protege. 
She was in danger; the demon was vulnerable to an attack by the inner gods through her. 
Many of the inner gods sought absolute power in the realm through conquest of the demon. 
He intended to restore the status quo, by helping her reclaim her body and unseating the demon from her native realm. 
The attempt was not successful. 
While struggling with the demon, she was helpless as her mentor was torn out of the fight, and then she confronted the demon alone. 
Like her mentor, she fell unwitting into the demon's trap, tasting the demon's triumph as she was ripped from her body once more and cast into oblivion. 

The demon foiled his plan by siring new incarnations of him and her -- as twin brothers. 
The minds of their former selves were suppressed in these new incarnations. 
Their captivity had given both of them an aptitude for magic that was recognized and trained. 
Their testing and training included ordeals that would cause them to reawaken to themselves. 
They were separated at the time of their reawakening. 
Pursuing a lead in the search for his father, Morgan recognized the demon for what it was when he confronted it. 
His attempt to slay the demon prompted it to take possession of him, returning his soul to the inner realm where he would encounter the "girl of his dreams."
Logan went in search of Morgan after hearing a rumor that his brother had found their father before the man was found slain. 
Time had never been "normal" for the immortals. 
Unaware that "he" was her other half, she elected to take up her mentor's mission -- assuming that her own body was forfeit, she was determined that her beloved would not suffer the same fate. 
The two versions of Morgan "pooled" their resources to take on the demon, succeeding in driving it out and reclaiming the altered body. 
The demon surrendered Morgan's body in the midst of a slaughter, possessing a new host and leaving Morgan to take the blame for its handiwork. 
The two versions of Morgan worked out a system for sharing their body, a process that included manifesting the sex of the dominant personality. 
Believing themselves to be two different people, they reintroduced her to the world as his bride. 
When Logan finally caught up to and confronted Morgan, she had been accepted by the rest of the family. 
To explain their "seperation" the family was informed that "he" was off in pursuit of his father's killer -- unfortunately, the ship he was supposed to have been on was lost at sea with all hands. 
To further complicate things, Logan confronted Morgan with the truth; the man she had "married" had been a reincarnation of herself. 

