20070707

An inspiration

This is an evolution of an older idea, having the girl displaced from her body by the demon in the ring who reincarnates her as a boy. The idea of her being displaced into the world within the demon is helped by new ideas about the relationship between gods, angels and demons (the god cycle) and the old design of unpromised, modified by newer ideas. Thus, the story takes on many threads that would form several books in a series. The demon would have been trapped in an earlier age, perhaps during the war of the gods when it collected souls aggressively, and those souls became trapped in a dream-like realm where they were immortal and had offspring who, by virtue of being born native to that realm, were mortal and helped to give the realm more reality. 

The seed souls initially entered a kind of wasteland, a chaotic, shifting amorphea polarized by the surreal and the ideal. Their thoughts and feelings created the world they existed in, an unending dream that was difficult to control because it was shared. In time, they learned how to manipulate their reality, even as reality became stable through the influence of their offspring, replicating the pattern of their host realm and becoming lesser gods, or shepherd gods of the demon’s realm. 

The girl is the first new soul to enter this realm unborn since the death of the man who trapped the demon in the ring. He is drawn to her and takes her under his wing, as the shepherd gods strive to pull her into their ranks and intrigues. He is the one who explains to her what has happened, where she is and what it means. Where she came from, she was just a girl; where she was, she was a goddess. For her, the realm was an incredibly lucid dream and an eternal prison. Because of what happened to her, having her body stolen and possessed by the demon, she had a direct link to the demon, the true god of the realm. 

Her mentor had the knowledge and skill to use the ring to wrest control of her body from the demon. His attempt to do that resulted in the creation of a male incarnation of her. In effect, while he was struggling to take control, the demon tried to break the link by reincarnating her parthenogenically, trapping her in oblivion in the shadow of a new incarnation. When her mentor finally seized control of her body, it had been turned male by the demon and the new incarnation of her had already been conceived. The demon continued to struggle for possession of her body, needing only a moment to use it as a platform to seize a new body and escape the influence of the ring—the body of her male incarnation. 

This second possession thrusts the male and female versions of her back into the Umbra, as her mentor called the demon’s realm. This time, she has to take on the role of mentor, guiding her alter ego through the perils of the Umbra and the secrets of the Penumbra. Together they face trials and temptations, pooling their talents and experience to escape the Umbra and return home. Unfortunately, they awaken to a shared existence in one body to face persecution for the crimes committed by the demon.

 
Inspiration revised

A fault becomes obvious on second reading; if the demon succeeded in thwarting the mentor’s attempt to regain possession of Morgan’s body for her, it would take the opportunity to rid itself of both of them at the same time and be in sole possession of Morgan’s original body. Thus, the idea of the mentor taking possession of Morgan remains the best option. When he gains possession of her body, he quickly realizes what has happened and struggles with himself over what to do about the person whose life he had unwittingly stolen. It was within the power he wielded through the ring to at least free her soul from the ring and give her a new life; the problem was that he could not bring himself to endure pregnancy and birth to accomplish that task. Deciding that the life of a boy was better than no life at all, he sires a new incarnation of Morgan. 

He takes an active role in the boy’s life, raising him as both father and mentor. Morgan’s former existence as a girl haunts him as a boy, but her memories and identity remain suppressed, disconnected from Morgan’s new life. The few memories or assertions of Morgan’s former life in dreams are pushed aside by the boy, as he struggles to live up to the expectations of those around him. Eventually, however, the boy confides in his father and mentor. Expecting to hear that the dreams were visions of a girl he was destined to marry, he was surprised to learn that they were memories of a previous life. Reflecting on many instances in his life when he had shrugged off the feeling that he should have been a girl, and having made peace with his life as a boy, the revelation was staggering. 

The problem was complicated by the fact that he had cherished the notion that he was dreaming of his soul mate and had fallen love with the girl of his dreams. In the past, no girl had measured up to the girl of his dreams, and part of him feared none ever would. His inner turmoil became a weakness the demon was able to exploit. Having long struggled to escape its prison, the demon had found a chink in the wards that bound it and had waited for the right opportunity to act, knowing that it would only be able to seize control of its nemesis for a moment before the man reasserted himself. A moment, alone with Morgan, was all it needed. Taking possession of Logan, the demon used him as a platform to launch an attack on Morgan and take possession of him. 

Possessed by the demon, Morgan was thrust into the demon’s shadow; by virtue of having two, equally mature identities, Morgan manifested in both male and female form. For the female Morgan, no time had passed. For both, the transition into the world within the demon’s shadow was like waking up from a nightmare, emerging separately and unaware of each other. Many of the following events remain true in spirit to their original inspirations, with the two encountering each other as strangers in that world. At least, the girl did. The boy could hardly mistake her, but considered her presence in the flesh an indication that he was trapped in some incredibly lucid dream. His prison had granted him the one thing he could never have in reality, the fulfillment of his dream. 

  
Alternate inspirations

With a few adjustments, the ideas for a male-to-female sequence of reincarnation, in which the protagonist takes a principle, active role in defining herself during her male first incarnation, can be worked out. The boy creates the ring and traps the demon in it. A variant has him live as a woman from the age of seventeen to the age of twenty-seven; having captured the demon to achieve this transformation. The non-variant has him switching sexes during those years, in the role of hunter and guardian. The effects of the shape changing powers he exploited undermined his identity; the erosion of his native form was a common curse among true shape changers. The threat of eventually succumbing to demonic possession led to a great deal of soul searching, an attempt to anchor his identity on who he was, rather than what he had been. 

A close variant would be based upon an accidental discovery of the ring, within which the souls of the demon and its captor were bound. The instant he puts it on, he is transformed into a girl and it takes months of trial and error for him to discover how to command the ring’s powers. From the age of seventeen to nineteen, Morgan experiments with and exploits the ring’s powers to survive and evolve... 

