20070822

A possible variation for 20070821 would be for the exile to have taken possession of the boy's father, and for the boy to actually be a reincarnation of his father, a protege of the founder in his first life and a protege of the exile in his second life. Thus, the phoenix takes possession of both bodies when the parents are eclipsed. This is a slightly more difficult approach, and unravels most of the threads as presented, but does not favor either sex and provides the phoenix with a literal self-conception. The initial circumstances would make it appear that they are the people they have displaced, though their apparent loss of memory would raise some concerns. 

Ultimately, it might not be worth the trouble to set up such an elaborate "self-conception" when doing so undoes the dramatic elements that led up to the inspiration. The point of all the brainstorming was to establish a sound basis for a split conception, and that was acheived through the original idea of the protege being responsible. This most recent consideration simply allows for the process to resurrect the exile at the same time. 

By having the protege's attempt to sire an incarnation of the god usurped by the exile's bid for resurrection, the exile takes possession of the phoenix as the phoenix takes possession of the protege's body. As the protege is eclipsed, the exile completes the incarnation of the boy and the protege is forced to become female to complete the incarnation of the phoenix as a girl. Thus, the boy has the exile for a father and the girl has the protege for a mother. 

Upon reflection, it works better and is closer to past inspirations to have the girl have the exile for a mother and the boy to have the protege for a father. In the moment when the protege sires the boy, the phoenix takes possession and the protoge's body turns female to accomodate her remaining potential, and the spell concludes with the conception of the girl. The exile ends up taking possession at that point, resurrected as the girl's mother. 20070825

This almost painful bit of psychic juggling obscures the event so that the exile and the protege are not immediately aware of the split conception, but it ensures that both incarnations are identical apart from sex and provides them with parents suited to their development. Logically, however, the founder would likely sense something and confront the exile. The protege would also seek out the founder, her mentor, as soon as possible. 

The boy's mother, as the protege's accomplice, would be taken into the exile's confidence quickly. The girl would probably be identified by the founder and her mother as an incarnation of the soul of creation, and the exile would know that the boy was, but a certain animosity between the protege and the exile would prevent them from sharing their knowledge, and likely the girl would be discouraged from associating with the boy if he was identified as the son of the exile. 

In exchange for losing her identity, the protege becomes a goddess of the realm, and thus is it not unreasonable for her to be taken in hand by a god who also dwells among mortals, raising two daughters. In this respect, the inner gods have elected to welcome and watch over the new goddess and her daughter. In this age, the inner gods have simply accepted the world as their home. They hide in plain sight and work or fight in the shadows. 

Adopted threads are greatly simplified in this approach, and an alternative to the massacre thread can be considered now that a persistent mother figure is available. It can either be disposed of or altered, perhaps as an event that prevented her from being initiated, or it can be replaced by the ordeal of falling into the ruins. There are several developed approaches that can be employed, including ones that bring her into contact with her other half when she is mistaken for an assassin. 

The girl in this approach does fall in with the wrong crowd. Her amazing agility earns her an unwilling apprenticeship in cat burglary, disguised initially as street-wise training in gymnastics, acrobatics and fighting known as shadow-dancing. She does such a good job of obscuring her life as a theif that she somehow ends up with a reputation in the underworld as an unusually competent young assassin. Even a true assassin, like the exile, believed it -- if only briefly. 

On taking over the protege's life, the exile's experience as a god makes it easy for him to assimilate the teachings the founder based upon his own discoveries. Just as the protege is forced to do with her daughter, the exile takes the boy on as his protege and heir to establish his own tradition in the art. He employed the art and the skills of an assassin as a hunter of immortals, and took an interest in the girl when she became caught up in the world of assassins and immortals. 

This approach also lends itself to a version of the wager, involving her in events that lead up to the ruins becoming the site for the trials, through her helping to reveal what is lurking within them. It would involve her death and assimilation by her other half, incorporating ideas concerned with his transformation. Both of them endure a trial of transformation as she struggles with being turned and being redeemed by her other half and finally merging with him. 

The ideas that are being tapped for this project have been in development for decades and each concept has many variations. 

The girl's trauma has long been considered as the demon within thread and many approaches depend on this context. The ordeal need not leave her a complete orphan, but it could have cost her a close childhood companion or nothing more than the trauma of being lost and alone in the ruins. Whatever happens, it results in a demon struggling to overcome her from within. It's struggle for possession presents an opportunity for the boy to gain the girl's form by becoming a familiar, and can also serve as a motive for immortals to cooporate to destroy her. 

