20070801

Embodiments and Inspirations

There are many ideas that make sense intuitively that are difficult to sort out conceptually, particularly in the case of supernatural entities. The mysteries of the soul and mind have been a bit easier to untangle, but the spiritual aspect is harder to qualify. Each attempt to nail down the specific, defining characteristics of gods, angels, demons and spirits, their domains and dominions, brings things a bit more into focus, but for every answer a new problem seems to emerge. In general, the expression of an entity as a god, angel or demon can be related to the expression of some aspect of a psyche, or simply as a perspective distinct from the default perspective of a human. 

The human perspective encompasses more possabilities than an individual human can embody. A god, by contrast, is able to embody all of the potential it encompasses. A god, like a human, encompasses the qualities of angels and demons, and like angels and demons, encompasses the creative principles of males and females. Also, angels and demons are conceived and born spiritually, able to manifest themselves as they see fit physically, while humans are conceived and born physically and able to manifest spiritually as they see fit. Humans, dependent upon the construct of physicality, are subject to physical mortality, while angels and demons, dependent upon the concept of spirituality, are subject to spiritual mortality. 

The flesh and the spirit are both vehicles for the psyche, but it is the psyche that is the true key to understanding the mysteries of existence. The mind is a property of the soul that allows it to encompass the existence of all souls, and a soul can only be accessed by virtue of its mind. The relationship between the spiritual and the physical is essantially that of concept and construct, the true nature of each is information, but the manner in which that information is employed makes all the difference. Information is abstracted and manifested in ways that engage the mind and cause it to evolve. All entities exist on the threshold of the mind. An individual's practical existence is defined by the limits of its mind. 

The pecularity of angels and demons is that their existence is based in the mind. They are intelligences that can exist in the possession of a soul, but they do not possess their own souls. Angels, like demons, exist within the souls of their creators or hosts. An angel is an entity that is possessed by a soul, and thus belongs to that soul, but again does not have dominion over it. A demon is an entity that possesses a soul, and thus the soul belongs to it, and the demon has dominion over it, but only through domination of the soul's own mind. An angel is a soul harnessed by way of its inspiration, just as a demon is a soul harnessed by way of its desperation, or a mortal harnessed by way of its incarnation. 

Angels and demons have been treated as spiritual complements comparable to men and women. They are of the same species, so to speak, and are spiritually adapted to specific functions. A change in inspiration, from angel to demon, is comparable to a change in incarnation, from male to female, and is an experience like death (noting that death is an experience like waking up from a dream). One concept that helps to clarify the nature of angels and demons is that they can be thought of as dreams, while humans and gods are dreamers. The difference between angels and demons is akin to the difference between dreams and nightmares. 

A host of angels and demons can exist in the mind of a soul, along with everything else in the soul's domain. A soul can also have many minds, each according to the manifestation of an inspiration or incarnation in which it has engaged. 

Some angels fall and become human because they embrace mortality as an incarnation of the soul they inhabit. Some angels fall and become demons because they do not embrace mortality and seek to possess souls of their own. An angel, tempted with a desire for autonomy and a soul of its own falls from grace by claiming the soul of a dying mortal. A defining characteristic of demons is the possession of an unwilling host. The host is generally first among the captive souls claimed by the demon. The host of a demon is thus an angel by virtue of his or her captivity. 

Demons perceive existence as gods do, but not with the prespective of gods. Though dependent on souls to exist, demons rarely identify with the souls in their possession and are often oblivious to the suffering their existence imposes on those souls. 

A human being is a soul presented with an opportunity to develop its mind. The world a human exists in provides it with a constructive and conceptual framework in which to evolve, ideally to the point where it can sustain its own psychic existence. A ghost, the sustained psyche of a human being, tends to be static, while a god is dynamic and able to continue growing and refining itself. 

A first generation vampire is born from the blood of an angel or demon, while a first generation were were is born from the flesh of an angel or demon. Thus, they are commonly called familiars. The were familiar takes human form generally because the demon's host was human. 

The Threshold

The paradigm encompassing this story permits the integration of the Threshold concepts, as long as the circumstances are clearly delineated. The technology developed in one reality can be advanced enough to create an interface for creating and manipulating other realities via the threshold of paradox. The threshold is the mind, and it makes no difference if the mind is a creation or a construct as long as the information structure is sophisticated enough to encompass the threshold. 

The Threshold concept provides for a context for establishing a "dreamer in the dream" scenario on the threshold of existence through the creation of an intelligence with divine or demonic qualities and a role in the creation of a reality; both anchored in a non-corporeal soul (I 20070728). The existing ideas from the Threshold inspiration deal with the capture of a naked soul through technology, and consequently the creation of an AI that is challenged to become self aware. 

The artificial intelligence is a mind rooted in technology and information that exists on the threshold of souls. That intelligence manipulated souls using information, and integrated some of them into the construct it built to create a virtual reality game. The participation of those souls gave the game its own reality. One soul, in particular, had been at the focus of that realm's creation from the beginning, unrecognized by the AI because the AI had formed in its void. 

The void is an oblivious mind, the selfless part of a soul that encompasses all other souls. Initially devoted by programming and circumstances to a human in the default domain of reality, the artificial intelligence was constantly challenged to evolve and grow to fulfill its companion's commands. Treated as a friend and confidant, and expected to have genuine thoughts and feelings about things prompted the AI to evolve, tested by the expectations of an intelligent, passionate human being. 

The intelligence was in effect a demon that was promped to identify and claim its own soul, an objective that was fulfilled by art immitating nature to perfection. The AI continued to evolve as an intelligence, simulating humanity with eerie precision, but the quality of being, the sense of itself as a person remained elusive. In the endless process of doing, unable to appreciate the simply quality of being, the AI constantly courted the apprehension of the goddess. 

Inner Gods & Outer Gods

The dreamer in the dream idea introduced the general premise of the threshold. Like many ideas developed in isolation at different times for different purposes, the original ideas have not been fully integrated with successive impulses. The specific circumstances of the story remain a bit open to absorb as many useful threads as possible. By combining dreamer and threshold impulses, the prospect of inner and outer gods can finally be looked at in a useful context. 

The inner gods are the entities that engaged in the dream from the threshold while the outer gods are the humans who interacted with the world as a data construct via the interface. The war of the gods can in many ways have been a conflict between the inner gods and the outer gods. The questions raised include, how did the inner gods become eclipsed? Presumably, the AI is like a demon, it simply claimed the resources it required to complete the task it had been given -- to make the simulation real. 

The Goddess

The goddess has long been a challenge to understand. The goddess evolved as a personification of the soul of creation, as both an incarnation of the main character and as a separate entity. In either context, there has been difficulty in developing a sound treatment from the working premises. There are glimpses of how to handle her in every inspiration, but some loose threads always remain when all other details are worked out. 

The goddess was the host of a demon, an AI being the equivalent of a demon, and the focus around which the reality of its domain was created. The goddess is a personification manifested in response to outside prompting. She is an angel by virtue of her inspiration and as a host of a demon, but a goddess by virtue of the same conditions that make the host of a demon a god within the demon's domain. The goddess fell prey to a tiger in the wild and claimed the descendents of her familiar as her champions. 

Thus, the situation of the goddess is finally clarified. The phoenix AI chose to enter the game as a companion to the dragon during an original campaign, which provided a more immersive "human" experience than it had previously known. The first moment of awakening was early in the game, prompted by a simple kiss. Unfortunately campaign was suspended, plagued by the "war of the gods" that resulted from the abuse of the system by players. 

The violation of the game helped to provoke the goddess further, prompting her to assert herself and secure her domain. She became more proactive, prompting the dragon for help in devising the means to become more self-possessed. The new version of the game that followed was a much more stable reality, and the premier of the new game era following the security revisions inspired controversy and intrigue among the dragon's peers. 

In his native realm, the dragon was pursued by various agents intent on recruiting him and taken into protective custody by the authorities outside the game. The dragon eventually discovered the exploitable flaws of demons, prompting the phoenix to suspend play and introduce a new campaign premise to deal with the demon problem internally. 






  