ei 20081111

The original attempt to draft this story produced a number of useful elements, but revising this story arc presents a number of challenges. One involves the need to preserve some elements reserved for the child of division. Another involves using the demon of the realm, if the parents are to play a part in the story. To avoid redundancy, situationally similar events need to be diverted to use alternatives discarded from the child of division arc. 

:. The marriage pact : this thread has developed elements from multiple approaches that will need to be sorted. The point, however, is that the engagement is imposed from above the parents heads. 

The truth is that the boy is a male version of herself conceived by accident when their parents were magically merged to combine their abilities in order to fight a demon. They had grown up in rival houses and become friends at the academy; as their friendship grew into something more, they initially welcomed the prospect of their union and the opportunity to unite their houses. The events surrounding their fusion, along with the conception and birth of their child, changed everything. 

:. The fusion : this is an alternative to the child of fusion "prequel" and the contradictions and conflicts of interest inherent in that thread. The child is conceived when the parents are merged. If they are divided apart before the child is born, this is what divides the child into male and female incarnations. If the parents are divided after the child is born, another cause for the child's division is required, most probably a permutation of the childhood trauma. 

:. The child of fusion : as explored, this thread invokes a ten year "prequel" story arc. The fusion event becomes a bit more complicated, however. 

the union of their parents
...a new consciousness was born in the fusion
...and confronted by a demon
...and then pursued by the demon
...who taunted her with the fate of her parents
...the aes discovered the truth of her creation
...and sought a way to free her parents
...and conceived a new incarnation of herself

the mother's sacrifice
...seven years after the child was born, the demon confronted the aes
...the demon offered to divide the aes and free her parents
...too late realized that the demon intended to claim her through her child
...the aes gained contol of the demon long enough to sabotage the demon's plan
...the aes was able to extend her division to her child
...and sacrificed herself
...in order to hide them from the demon, the boy and girl were separated
...the woman assumed a new identity and raised the girl 
...the man assumed a new identity and raised the boy 




