ei 20081012



Simply attempting to embody the soul of creation set events in motion; the attempt threatened to undermine the demon's possession of its host and provoked it to intervene. 

The founder of the third age of magic introduced a new model of existence based on his exploration of knowledge gained as a result of growing up among a communty of demigods, children of the gods of the first age of magic -- souls captured by the demon. A group of his students betrayed him, stealing his legacy and nearly assassinating him, unaware that he was virtually immortal. The group schismed, establishing a several institutions of magic and a religion in his name, revering him on one hand as a mystic, and on the other as a prophet -- but in both cases as a martyr. He obscured his existence for almost a thousand years. Eventually, he was able to establish himself as a master in one of the more benign branches of the Academy and resume teaching carefully handpicked students. 

The attempt was made by a gifted initiate and unwitting protege of the founder of the third age of magic. He realized the implications of his mentor's teaching and, with the help of a female accomplice, another initiate and his peer in the art, attempted to embody the soul of creation, unaware that it was eclipsed. 

The attempt to conceive an incarnation of the soul of creation provoked the demon to attack through him and possess his accomplice. The possessed woman attacked, biting the protege and turning him into the demon's familiar. Instead of becoming a typical were, the protege transformed into a twin of the possessed woman while she was transformed into his twin. 

The accomplice in exile: Once eclipsed by the demon, the accomplice found herself in limbo, lost in a nightmare wasteland that was a pale reflection of reality. There, she encountered other lost souls, among them individuals who had turned their back on the lure of becoming gods of the inner realm to search for a way back to the realm of their origin. To them, because of her connection to a body still inhabited by the demon, she offered an avenue of attack they were desperate to exploit, so they blocked her access to the inner realm. Under this type of abuse, her exile was a form of hell. Tormenting her was an indirect way to torment and provoke the demon. 

The demon, now male, pursued and then raped the, now female, protege. The protege assumed that her effort to embody the soul of creation had merely opened her up to the demon's attack, and failed to grasp the soul of creation at all. The child she bore was the product of her rape, and essentially normal in her conception.

As the pregnancy progressed, the mother became unable to assume her male form. The child inherited the parents' sex changing abilities, but unlike the parents, the child's male and female forms were identical apart from sex. 

The child was officially recognized and raised by her "unwed" mother as a girl, but soon after the pregnancy the protege discovered he could reassert his natural form and presented the child as his son by an anonymous mother, which allowed the child be recognized as a boy. 

Establishing the child as two legally unrelated people was intended to help disguise the fact that the boy and girl were the same person. To prevent a situation from arising that might cause the child's secret to be discovered, the boy and girl were officially betrothed to discourage any matchmaking or courtship in the future. In a long term, close relationship it would have been impossible to hide the fact that the child's time was divided between two separete lives. 

Under her assumed identity, the protege occasionally lived with her accomplice's family, a mother and two infant sisters. As a result, the child grew up with two aunts only a year and three years older than her. This extended family was kept unaware of the protege's and the child's shared secret, and as a result took the engagement plans seriously. 

When she was seven, her sire tracked her down, and in the guise of her mother, tried to dominate her. 

The childhood trauma: The conception of the protagonist as the soul of creation would have undermined the demon's possession and prompted the demon to attack. The conception of the protagonist during the rape of the protege of the founder would have prompted the demon to eventually claim the child. Alternatively, the demon simply hunting down its familiar could result in the massacre that traumatized the child. The demon might not have suspected its familiar had been impregnated; confronting the child would prompt the demon's probing examination. 

The child's division: Originally, the child's division into seperate incarnations while fighting this psychic rape was an instinctive response, causing the demon to become trapped in the depths the child's psyche. Because the demon is the mind of creation, the child would be eclipsed by possession and able to manifest in the realm as an inner god while the demon remained in possession of the child's original body. 

A psychic division resulted as a product of gender compartmentalization and outside interference with the demon's assault. The demon is bound within the original incanation of the child by the protege's accomplice. When the child is assaulted by the demon posing as her mother, her possession allows the woman to reassert herself, recognize what is going on and intervene. 

The woman frees the girl from her possession with the demon's unwitting help. The demon's weakness was its desire for a soul of its own, an objective that could not be acheived simply by possessing someone. The demon believed that it needed to assimilate its host, when in truth the host had to assimlate the demon into his or her psyche. 

The woman was an initiate who, as one of its familiars, was commanded to help the demon assimilate its host. The initiate soon discovered that she could use the demon's ambition to trap it in the girl's psyche. The initiate warded the girl to allow her psyche to eclipse the demon, and while this bound and imprisoned the demon, it did not prevent the girl from potentially assimilating the demon within her.

Thus, the child's biological father is restored to her normal self, binding the demon within the girl who asserts herself following the ordeal. The child's biological mother allows the woman to reclaim her identity and take over as the girl's mother. 

In his proper identity and form, the protege suspects what has happened to the child's other half, tracking the boy down and taking on the role of mentor and illegitimate father. 

The boy was taken under his father's wing and raised apart from the girl, both halves emotionally scarred by the traumatic ordeal. They both suppressed their ability to change sex, to hide what makes them different from other children and in response to bad experiences in their alternate forms.  

In their alternate forms, the child's parents simply assumed each other's identity -- though they were careful to avoid being in the same form in the same place at the same time. 

The transformations the child had taken in stride were eventually forgotten, the boy and girl revising their memories of childhood to accomodate their genders. 
Because the ability to change sex was only suppressed, it was only a matter of time before something triggered a transformation again. The boy's first adolescent transformation into a girl was witnessed by his friends. 

Only when they were reunited, neither suspecting they were the same person originally, did the demon trapped between them find a way to reassert itself. 

His side of struggling with the demon within: He has struggled with the absence of his other half and become conflicted over his attraction to her, tainted as it was by the feeling that she was not so much the girl of this dreams but the girl he dreamed of being. The dreams of his other half were stimulated by his attracton to normal girls. His undoing began when the demon exploited his confusion to trigger his ability to become a girl. This transformation lead to his introduction to his other half, and the initial hope of a normal role and relationship with her. In a sense, the ordeal the boy was going through was a result of natural healing of the psychic rift between him and his other half. The demon was exploiting it to undermine and unravel her using the void within him. This process opened the cracks the demon needed to attack her from within. 

In a moment of intimacy, the demon took possession of the boy. Rather, when it moved to take possession of the girl, it discovered that it had failed to cripple the wards she had been protected with -- but the boy had no such protection. To subdue the boy, the demon threatened to destroy the girl; to save her, the boy embraced the demon, allowing himself to be assimilated by it. 





