i 20081204

a girl as her own twin

One way to resolve the problem created by moving the girl from her own splinter of reality into that of a male complement is to actually move her initially to a splinter with another version of herself. She would have been presented as a twin to that splinter's version of herself. 

a girl as a compliment of a boy

<0><adapted> Assuming the girl crossed over to the boy's splinter of reality to escape from the horror of witnessing the slaughter of her family, she would arrive and be treated as an orphan with no known origins. The orphanage would be her home but she would become a ward of the school that took her on. 

The girl's psychic ability, used once in desparation to cross the rift, makes her a prodigy at the academy and earns her the special attention of the school's founder and his patron. The boy's latent psychic ability marked him for training in the arts of magic at the academy, which eventually unlocked his psychic potential. 

Initially, the only clue to the girl's past was her discovery in the ruins, which she explored whenever she could. Eventually, on a visit to the boy's home, she finds her way to the scene of her ordeal and begins to relive it. The traumatic visions cause her to black out and lose time. 

The traumatic flashbacks give the demon within her temporary possession. Eventually, desperate to escape from her nightmares, she projects herself into a splinter incarnation of herself that never lost her family. Thus, she discovers that she is a splinter incarnation of the boy she was engaged to marry. 

In this world, she is faced with a different marriage prospect, arranged by her grandmother along with her inheritance of an estate her mother had refused to claim -- a choice that spared her family the massacre the girl had witnessed and survived in her own splinter of reality. 

They had been lovers, and the demon took advantage of her relationship with him to get close enough to steal his form. 

<1><unadapted> During the confrontation, the demon responded to the boy's questions about the girl's fate by thrusting him into the splinter of reality where her consciousness had fled. 

The boy encountered that world's version of his father before the first transformation into a copy of the girl. The girl had accepted her displacement, embracing the happy life her native counterpart had enjoyed -- as she delighted in the abilities and training she gained in their fusion. 

In the world the boy and girl grew up together in, the demon was able to pose as either of them and remain undetected. In the world they had entered, the boy's transformation into a twin of the girl eventually resulted in their reunion -- at which point the boy learns the girl is a splinter incarnation. 

The boy learns what the curse of his transformation actually is, a desire that he must satisfy to regain his natural form. Just as a vampire needed to drink blood, or a were needed to hunt, the boy was driven to have sex to fulfill the needs of the body he had acquired.

The discovery of their origins in other splinters of reality and the discovery of their psychic ability combine to bring them to the attention of that world's versions of their academic patrons. They are warned of the danger of what they had unwittingly unleashed upon their own splinter of reality. 

<2><adapted> The girl helped her new twin come to terms with being a girl while exploring the consequences of fusing two lives together. Her knowledge of the underworld and attempts to forge new connections with the orphans of the city bring her to the attention of a powerful vampire and his were tiger rival. 

When the girl is bitten by the vampire and were tiger, struggling to survive the battling infections, her only option is to try to reclaim her body from the demon. The demon asks for her soul in exchange for returning her body and the girl refuses, resigning herself to her death. 

The boy-turned-girl feels the girl's death and tracks down her corpse. After her burial, he returns to his own splinter of reality to finish the mission they had planned together, to hunt down the demon and end the threat it presented to the people in his own realm. 

To her shock, the girl comes back to life as a hybrid were-vampire. She struggles with the hunger and thirst of her new condition while each of her sires competes to bring her under his control. She takes refugue in the manor she would have inherited if she were not legally dead. 
