20070817

By the time the computer is fully on, the idea it is turned on to write has slipped away! The story calls for a situation in which a male and female incarnation of the same person is born, and while it is easy enough to invoke magic as the cause, it ultimately has to make sense -- the magic has to be explained. In the child of fusion approach, it makes sense, but in a way that displaces too much of the story. The touch of the phoenix approach makes sense, but it could strain the tolerance of the audience. A variation on the wager might work, a partial adaptation of the hybrid theme, in which something quite different from a vampire or ware is conceived. 

A variation on the touch of the phoenix/nemesis concept -- the nemesis and the parent of the split incarnations are both potential avatars, the parent is taken on as the protege of the father of modern magic as a test of the nemesis's claim that certain individuals possessing certain characteristics are natural conduits for the soul of creation. The universe, for whatever reason, is responsive to the will of such people and they are thus closer to the power of creation. The nemesis had "surrendered" to that power and became a god -- only to be destroyed by the inner gods for starting the war of the gods. The father of modern magic had confirmed most of the claims made by the nemesis and saw the importance of giving the touched training, discipline and supervision. His protege of course quickly realized what the nemesis had, but unlike the nemesis, it occured to him that if creation had a soul it could be personified, proving the claims of the new religion. He attempted to sire an incarnation of the god, but did not anticipate that the limits of human form would necessitate two incarnations to embody the full creative potential of the soul of creation. Upon siring the boy, the protege was transformed into a woman and impregnated with a daughter to complement the former man's son. His mentor considered it a fitting punishment for meddling with the powers of creation and helped his protege establish herself in her new identity as a mother. When the time came, the master took on a new apprentice, the boy sired in this experiment, and his altered protege took responsability for the girl. 

As horrible as it is, it is the "death" of the girl that sets the boy's life on its ear. As a child, the girl was the victim of a traumatic ordeal that left her vulnerable to the nemesis of the phoenix. In essence, she banished someone or something to the abyss in which the nemesis had been exiled, and from that poor soul the nemesis learned of her and had a way to eventually possess her from within. The boy and girl, meeting and forming a relationship as strangers, were friends on the verge of something more intimate when the nemesis began to truly plague the girl's mind. They probed the mystery of her childhood ordeal and became lovers before her murder -- or assassination -- gave her nemesis the opening it had been waiting for. As an incarnation of the phoenix, her body would have to be destroyed on several levels to keep her dead, but the shock of dying was enough to unseat her mind and allow her nemesis to claim her body for himself. At the time of her death, the boy turned into a girl as the shock of the girl's death hit him, and his mentor was forced to take him to see his "father" since she was the only one he knew of who could really relate to what had happened to him. 

Ironically, the exile is actually a self-appointed champion of the realm. The reason he started the war of the gods was to combat the menace of the outer gods, and his destruction by the inner gods was motivated by fear of the consequences of taking on what they perceived to be greater powers behind creation. In his mortal life, the exile had been an assassin, and though it had not been possible to kill the outer gods, he had made it his mission to drive them off by destroying them if that was what it took. Upon resurfacing, he takes an interest in the phoenix, from whom he stole one incarnation. Gradually, the girl is able to escape from the exile's shadow by connecting to her other half -- now also a girl. 