20070819

A soul as the medium

A man and woman touched by the phoenix
A shadow of a god in exile
A single embodiment of the phoenix could not be born
A couple joined intimately together embody the ideal of the phoenix
A shadow within two minds forms a connection
A physical, spiritual and psychic union
A child conceived in the understanding of her parents
A phoenix rises, eclipsing her parents, and partially eclipsed by the exile
...
A delayed conception [1]
...


Original Threads

1] As presented here, it is not essential for the phoenix to be in her final form. In fact, it make sense for her to take possession of her parents bodies, and to have her father's body taken from her. She is in possession of her mother's body at this point. Her own body will not be conceived until she has sex with the exile two years later. 

A consequence of this is that the theme of changing sex would begin with the exile swapping bodies with her, but not actually altering the sex of either body. A related theme, part of the phoenix is held in the shadow of the exile, a shadow of creation, in which she tends to be in a reflexive position and state. Thus she has a kind of dual perspective. 

The child inherits the dual perspective of the phoenix and manifests the ability to change sex in response to either identifying with or complementing another. By default, the child is a girl, but in the company of men or boys, the child would turn into a boy. To protect the child from discovery, it is deemed necessary to split her and seperate the male and female incarnations for a while. 

The mother and father become proteges of the exile, having essentially ascended in the fashion he had. The attack upon the phoenix seven years after her child is born is mounted by the inner gods, mistaking her for her mother whom, along with her father, they have marked as a threat to creation. When the phoenix is slain, her memory is divided between the boy and girl. 

--

In the creation of aeirn, the phoenix took on an infinite number of tasks and responsabilities and thus spawned an infinite number of angels. As the world evolved, some of the angels became self aware and evolved into inner gods, some became absorbed into the fabric of life, and some of the angels fell and became demons.  

The touched are individuals possessing certain characteristics that make them natural conduits for the soul of creation. The universe, for whatever reason, is responsive to the will of such people and they are thus closer to the power of creation. The exile had "surrendered" to that power and became a god -- only to be destroyed by the inner gods for starting the war of the gods. 

The exile is actually a self-appointed champion of the realm. The reason he started the war of the gods was to combat the menace of the outer gods. In his mortal life, the exile had been an assassin, and though it had not been possible to kill the outer gods, he had made it his mission to drive them off by destroying them if that was what it took. 

The exile's destruction by the inner gods was motivated by fear of the consequences of taking on what they perceived to be greater powers behind or beyond creation. His mind survived the destruction of his body and ghost, and was cast into oblivion, the void of creation. Upon resurfacing, he takes an interest in the phoenix, from whom he stole one incarnation. 

The father of modern magic had confirmed most of the claims made by the exile and saw the importance of giving the touched training, discipline and supervision. He quickly realized what the exile had, but unlike the exile, it occured to him that if creation had a soul it could be personified, according to the theory of dominion. 

In the tradition of the the goddess, the touched were recognized for their connection to the goddess. The girls were often named avatars of the goddess, while boys were made her champions. The goddess tradition was driven underground as a result of the rise of a new religion that emphasized the dominion of one god over creation. 

The touched continued to be quietly recognized and protected. Known traits favored by the goddess were bred for, in the hopes of strengthening ties to the goddess and hopefully restoring the old religion. In time, a boy and girl were born who each embodied the ideal -- two incarnations of the soul of creation, born to two feuding houses. 

The boy was born, ironically, into a house devoted to the god, while the girl was born into a house devoted to the goddess. 



Within any world, time is a normal function that can only be circumvented by way of paradox -- accessing the potential of the threshold. Natural objective laws are internally consistent and exclusive to a realm, but can be circumvented through internalization, in essence by making them subjective. This is the premise of psionics and magic. 


Adopted Threads

In the heat of the moment, while deeply twined in physical and psychic intercourse, the couple conceive the phoenix in fusion. The phoenix is conceived in the understanding of her parents, thus manifests initially in a male and female form, but the exile seized one of the bodies for itself and tried to slay the phoenix. It was done more on instinct than by intent, however.

In the middle of the murder investigation, the phoenix resurrects and flees from the morgue, prompting the belief that she was a new fledged vampire. Thus, the vampires of the city move swiftly to bring her into the fold. It quickly becomes apparent to the vampires that she is something else entirely, and during the day she simply wanders out of their nest. 

In the initial struggle with the exile, the exile had claimed the male half of the phoenix to use its strength to overpower the phoenix, and resulted in the authorities informing her mother's family of their daughter's murder. When the couple resurfaced a few days later, the family was shocked and the authorities notified that she was safe and sound. 

On visiting the scene of the incident, the couple confirmed that the murdered girl had something to do with what had happened to them during the struggle with the exile. They official report, that the victim had risen as a vampire, explained nothing the couple had experienced. 

When the phoenix follows her instincts to the girl's home, she is mistaken for her mother until the girl arrives to confront her. They note that her presence in broad daylight refutes the notion that she is a vampire. The next day, when the boy arrives and mistakes the phoenix for his lover, the phoenix mistakes him for the boy she remembered killing her and attacks. 

The couple is stunned to learn that the "murderer" was a duplicate of him. The girl swears that it could not have been him, since he had been with her at the time, but again there is no explaining their loss of time or mysterious duplication. 

The couple had no memory of events from the time they were eclipsed to the moment they awoke in what seemed like a drug induced distortion of reality. Their hazy recollection of events was all they had to go by, and events were making what they remembered seem more and more impossible. The only solid lead they had was the phoenix, who seemed to have appeared out of nowhere. 

Being a mystery to herself, the phoenix was more than willing to cooperate with the couple in finding answers. Posing as the girl's cousin, she focused on sorting herself out and trying to remember who she really was while the couple searched in vain for other leads. 

The boy's mentor discovered that, however improbable, the phoenix had been trained in his own fighting style as if she were a boy. She responded to this by admitting that she sometimes had the feeling that she was supposed to be a boy. Though she had been deprived of her male form, the phoenix was still imprinted with the experiences of her father. 

When further experimentation proved that the phoenix was equally trained as the girl had been, the man suggests that the phoenix had been created from the couple, and given what had happened to her, she was probably an expendable byproduct. This prompts the couple to confide what had happened as best as they could remember it. 

There was only one possible conclusion. When asked to explain how they could still be duplicated and displaced, the man explained the legend of the exile and the theory of dominion, stating that the exile discovered a way to embrace the soul of creation, and had become a god of the realm. He was supposedly destroyed during the war of the gods. 

...

The phoenix, eavesdropping on this discussion, became alarmed when they began speculating about the influence the exile might have over her and how to deal with her if she became a threat. Though the questions were motivated by the couple's concern for the phoenix, she retreated before that was emphasized and ran. 

The exile had been waiting for such an opportunity, having learned of her resurrection and become curious to find out why she had survived. As the progenitor of the vampires he had their help in learning about her and tracking her down. When confronted by him, she demands to know his intentions. 

The exile takes her under his wing, admitting that she had been an unintended consequence of his attempt to acquire a new body, attacking her only because he did not know what she was and had assumed that she was a threat. The exile did not confirm the hunter's theory, because the exile had a theory of its own it had not intention of revealing. 

Instead, he asserted that he was interested only in helping her. Accepting his offer would certainly prove her parent's fears about her, but refusing him would make him and all of his vampires her enemies. She was surprised when her refusal was met without violence. The exile was determined to win her over, and had nothing to gain at this point by using direct force. 

Instead, the exile turned his attention to her parents. The nature of his connection to her allowed him to simply swap bodies with her. Returning to the parents in her place, the exile encouraged their confidence while subtly encouraging the hunter's suspicions. The exile wanted to undermine the parent's confidence in the hunter by provoking him into an attack. 

The phoenix fell in with a group that had formerly been friends of his mother's, at a time when she had run away from home and lived on the streets. The psychic that had taken her mother under his wing, to train her as a spy and assassin, never met her boyfriend, and accepted the phoenix for the boy he now appeared to be. 

The phoenix was no more interested in becoming a spy or assassin than his mother, but he did need someone to help him prepare to take on the exile. He quickly learned that the vampires and the street psychics were hostile to each other, and revealing that the exile was their source helped to establish him in the group. 

The father had gained psychic abilities as part of being eclipsed, and the only person the mother knew capible of training a psychic was her old mentor. Their visit, with the exile posing as the phoenix in tow, conforms what the phoenix suspected -- the exile could somehow switch bodies with him. Warning his parents was crucial, even at the risk of being attacked on sight. 


Applied Threads

In a scenario in which the phoenix becomes self posessed by virtue of entering the game, she conceives a daughter incarnation of herself. This is compatible with a scenario in which the daughter inherits the memory of her mother. This amounts to twenty-seven years of experience, which is roughly the age of the dragon outside of the game. 

In the original threshold project, the phoenix identified with a human host and conceived a new incarnation of her to claim her body. In some accounts, this happened by mistake. A suitable host for the phoenix was born and when she came of age, she was assassinated. The phoenix attempted to save her but ended up taking possession of her body. 

In her first incarnation, the phoenix is ambisexual, posing alternately as male and female, and thus can sire both incarnations. Or, she can bear a new incarnation that inherits her ambisexuality and later is split -- a sufficiently traumatic ordeal at an age where one is needed. Any scenario that establishes a manifest incarnation of the phoenix will work. 

The revised child of fusion establishes the phoenix without a preexisting incarnation or personification. Even though this approach imposes a two generation story arc, ideas that employ two generations have already been explored. The most recent can be adopted by simply reserving a few original threads and finding another premise for the supporting roles of the parents. 

Trying to give the phoenix a past has created endless problems for this project. The circumstances leading up to a split conception have a way of becoming overcomplicated. When a solution is found for one problem another problem is created. For example, the child of fusion concept has benefitted from the evolution of the dominion concept. 

The idea of the phoenix being conceived in fusion and eclipsing her parents is strong. Alternatives for establishing the event need to be considered. The main benefit of the approaches in which the demon sires the boy is that it provides a legitimate explanation for having a male incarnation as a coincarnation or a reincarnation of the girl. 

Combined with a few other ideas, it might be possible to acheive the creation of a demon nemesis and the conceptual division of the boy and girl in the same frame. Unfortunately, the parents end up absorbing the roles that originated with the boy and girl in the first place and the story ends up repeating itself. In order to understand where the idea goes astray, it is necessary to spell it out. 

There is no institutional recognition of the god, goddess or phoenix in this approach. A man and woman merge to pool their resources against a demon. In the process of merging, their shared consciousness expands to touch upon the soul of creation. The phoenix acheives full consciousness in that moment of understanding and asserts herself, unwittingly eclipsing her parents. 

The physical, mental and spiritual union of the parents touched upon the very soul of creation, providing the means for it to instantly realize itself as a person. In that instant, the phoenix eclipsed her parents. In the days that followed, the phoenix confronted the world as a complete amnesiac, informed by the experience of her parents but knowing almost nothing of herself. 

As a result, the phoenix is a manifestation of the soul of creation within creation, a dreamer in the dream, and the man and woman are eclipsed, manifesting as a god and a goddess within the realm. The demon provoking this event is thus involved in the conception of the phoenix. Meanwhile the god and goddess resume their former lives, bewildered by their inexplicable escape. 

There is a complex range of options to explore in this chapter of the phoenix's story, but the benchmarks include the conception of the boy and girl two years later, and the death of the phoenix when the boy and girl are seven years old. The demon can sire the boy and prompt the conception of the girl by the phoenix, sustaining existing plot characteristics. 

The situation in which the phoenix first emerges can absorb most of the avatars and naked dancer impulses as well. Among the variant threads for establishing a split conception through fusion is one in which the parents are destroyed in the fusion but resurrected in eclipse as twin angels who manifest as a god and goddess. 

The process of fusion had completed and refined them, so expressing themselves as a man and a woman was a matter of preference that resulted in the split conception of the phoenix as their son and daughter, born as twins but raised apart, as each took responsability for one child once it became clear that they shared a psychic bond. 

Because the main approach entails a second generation division through the phoenix, neither parent needs to be identical to the phoenix. When both incarnations are established in the same frame, they tend to absorb the key impulses and inspirations so it is necessary to reserve those elements for their benefit rather than adapt them to their parents. 

A situation in which the parents resort to merging in response to an overt threat does imply a story leading up to the story, so a viable alternative would be an accidental fusion -- possibly an experiment in sex magic in which they lose control of the magic, or normal sex in an enchanted place, by chance or design, unleashes a demon and that is what prompts the fusion.

The phoenix is created at the same time as her parents are being destroyed, in the process of the demon recreating itself. An experiment in sex magic is not entirely out of place for the parents. They were being trained as companions -- a tradition that originated in the age of gods. However, the influence of the exile upon those touched by the phoenix is also a good catalyst. 
