Active Revision


A Refinement

A goddess creates an angel, a spirit endowed with her own soul. An independent, if subordinate, incarnation, the angel falls in love with the goddess. The goddess rejects the angel, in effect rejecting that expression of herself. Thus damned, the angel becomes a demon. A strange combination of defiance and denial, this demon is essentially born of an unreconcilable emotion, and thus a soul forced into an unwanted existence. 

A demon trapped in a ring. A demon hunter slain. One ring, two souls; an angel transformed into a demon and a man turned into a woman, trapped together in a timeless limbo. In the hunter, the demon sees the potential for a way out of its exile. If it were embraced as part of another soul, a soul that could assimilate its spirit, then the demon could become a suitable companion for the goddess. In merging with the hunter, the demon could escape from the ring and manifest it's own body, but in the process it would become impregnated by the soul of the goddess as it cycled out of the demon's possession. This child would inherit certain things from its parent, like immortality and ambisexual polymorphism, but would otherwise be a human incarnation of the goddess. 

20070723

Applying this refinement to the noted inspiration, the "conceptual" loop could be reintegrated -- with some difficulty. The refinement works with existing ideas for the conception paradox, the initiation of a human incarnation of the goddess who is looped to serve as her own mother. It does not resolve all of the problems encountered before, but it does allow for the staggared incarnations of the child to overlap in the same time frame. This would allow many existing ideas to remain in play. Some possible modifications would include forcing the demon to sire the second, male incarnation of the child in order to claim the body of the temporally displaced first incarnation of the child, then being in a position to impregnate herself with the mote of the first, female incarnation. 

The depths of the demon's mind was where the souls it collected were imprisoned, and the nightmare they shared evolved into a mortal realm. The demon had been bound and exiled during the war of the gods. The demon and the goddess limited their access to the full potential of their soul as a consequence of this conflict. To compliment the goddess, the demon needed to exist as a god in his own right, requiring a soul of his own. In effect, the demon's purpose became identifying and elevating the soul mate of the goddess. 

Some variations to consider, the matter of who plays what part in the paradox might need to be expanded. In the refinement, two souls are involved. Initially, the demon is a spirit of the soul of creation, a product of spiritual conception. The demon had harvested many souls in search of one that was suited to its needs, and the soul best suited to its needs was born in the shadow of the demon's mind. 

The demon's prison was suspended outside of normal time and space. 
The origin of the rift. 
Only an embodiment of the soul of creation could enter it, and only an embodiment of a different soul could exit it. 
Creating a physical embodiment of itself was within the powers of the demon, but only by claiming a soul of its own was it possible for the demon to escape from its prison. 
A man with the soul suited to the demon's purpose was born in the demon's realm. 
The demon guided the man to the point of embracing it and he attaining godhood, by embracing the spirit and purpose of the demon. 
In order to enter the realm of the goddess, a body from the realm of the goddess needed to be surrendered to him, and only an embodiment of the goddess could enter the rift. 
A different soul, in possession of that body, was the only entity who could exit the rift and reenter the realm of the goddess. 
As the rift was outside of normal time and space, it was possible, though paradoxical, to have an embodiment of the goddess enter the rift from a point in time after the embodiment of the god exited; in effect, the god had to create the embodiment of the goddess that would later surrender her body to him. 
This child is first conceived as a girl, created in the womb of the body after it was surrendered to the god and after the conception of a boy who is a reincarnation of that girl. 

A third soul might be required here. A man in the service of the goddess has long been identified as being responsible for trapping the demon, using his own soul as bait and ending up trapped with the demon. This same man also ends up playing a role in the lives of each incarnation of the child. Other story concepts place this man in an external role with the goddess, as detailed in the dragon-phoenix inspiration for the threshold. An idea considered but not developed in detail dealt with the capture of this man's soul in an effort to save him from death in his native outer realm. This would of course have been a feat of the goddess, and the circumstances applicable in that context make him the god of the realm. He was the one who provoked the evolution of the goddess, driving her to recognize her own existence and personify herself. 

The relationship of the god and goddess, thus, becomes the source of the conflict between the god and the demon. Knowing how Phoenix felt about the Dragon, the demon considered him the best candidate for fulfilling its purpose, and pursued him. To the Dragon, the demon was simply a darker aspect of the Phoenix -- the same entity, but corrupted somehow -- so he was instrumental in isolating her shadow and banishing it. Unfortunately, in spite of what seemed a fool-proof design, he fell pray to his own trap, having misunderstood the demon's purpose and intentions. Having assumed that the demon was hostile to the goddess, he had been the true aggressor thrusting himself between the demon and the goddess. 

The demon had simply wanted the relationship the Dragon had with the Phoenix, possessed selfless love for its true self. It fought hard and ended up taking possession of the Dragon, and thus trapping them both. The Dragon becomes the child's mentor when she is possessed, and his attempt to restore the status quo prompts the demon raised god to reincarnate the Dragon and the child as twin brothers, before creating the first incarnation of the child. The new god incorporated the demon into himself, and even became the mother of the first incarnation of the child. Unfortunately, the demon still existed in its original form as an isolated part of the child's psyche, never entirely purged or assimilated by the soul of creation. 

It is this aspect of the demon that throws things back into confusion. Trapped within the girl's mind, it remains dormant until disturbed by the probing of another demon. The new demon is an outer demon, and it's purpose and function are detailed in notes pertaining to the Threshold. 

The original demon of this story is an aspect of the goddess. As the goddess is the Phoenix, the demon is the Dark Phoenix, and the inner realm is actually a subdomain of creation held in the mind of the Dark Phoenix. The new god created by the demon is a different soul born within that realm who embraced the mind of the Dark Phoenix. After siring reincarnations of the girl and the Dragon, the new god becomes the mother of the girl, who is a human incarnation of the goddess. Thus, it is more appropriate to think of the new god as a new goddess, a daughter of the Phoenix and the goddess of the sub-domain created by the Dark Phoenix. 

The mother was confronted by the goddess and recognized for what she was. Presented as the daughter of the goddess, she was also made a paladin and champion of the goddess, a role created initially for the Dragon. Thus, she was a natural target for the outer demon, seeking a way to get direct access to the goddess to fulfill its mission. It had played a part in manipulating conflicts between houses and nations, shifting the tides of the northern wars. 

The mind of the Dark Phoenix is also still a part of the goddess and both incarnations of the child, an aspect buried within each of them. The Dark Phoenix is awakened in the girl by the outer demon, after it takes possession of her mother. The outer demon discovers the existence of the sub-domain in mother and daughter, but cannot penetrate it as the mother abandons her body and retreats into it. When the demon attempts to possess the girl, the demon within her takes possession. 

The outer demon recognizes the inner demon as an expression of the goddess, and infiltrates it as it is designed to do before her mother's shell expires. The girl had intended to destroy herself, having intuited what the outer demon was doing, but her mother intervened, triggering the psychic reflex that caused the girl's mind to banish the demon from her consciousness and seal it once more in the depths of her psyche. The inner and outer demons had fused into a new mutation the mother was able to isolate from the inner realm, her domain. 

The girl's demon was completely contained, and the boy's remained undisturbed. The girl's demon struggled to reassert itself, gaining strength over the years. It was aided by allies that survived the massacre and others whose purpose it had helped advance. 

Some additional modifications are needed to adapt events concerning the demon's escape from the girl's mind, the boy's possession by the demon, and the girl's entry into the rift. The death of the girl's mother is something explored in the Threshold, and can be related to elements of Unpromised. There is something of a triangle relationship between the girl, the boy and his twin, ironically fitting many pre-existing ideas. The girl is promised to the boy's brother, but she is drawn to the boy for reasons neither understands. The girl lost her mother, but was adopted by the goddess -- posing as a mentor. 

The twins become suspicious of the girl's increasing episodes, eventually discovering that the demon that assaulted her as a child had been trapped within her and was trying to break out. When it finally does, the boy is the one who confronts it -- or provides it with the means to escape. The girl regains possession of herself under attack by the possessed boy, and in her desperation retreats to a place where only an incarnation of the goddess can go -- into the rift. There, waiting for her, is the goddess's demon, still in possession of the Dragon's remains. Already in bad shape, she is overpowered and possessed. 

The girl's experiences are staggered. She had stepped out of time before being possessed by the demonic phoenix, and has no idea what it going on. For this sequence, she is on her own. She has a few adventures before coming under the wing of the Dragon and her mother, in mysterious guise. Only after the "failed" attempt to recover her body does her path sync back up with the boy's. 




Revisiting the Inspirations

20070723

He sacrificed himself to bind the demon. 
She stumbled into the trap and was possessed, setting the demon free. 
The souls of the demon's victims were trapped within the demon, giving rise to a new realm. 
The captive souls were immortal, the inner gods of the new realm. 
He took her under his wing, as his protege. 
She was in danger; the demon was vulnerable to an attack by the inner gods through her. 
Many of the inner gods sought absolute power in the realm through conquest of the demon. 
He intended to restore the status quo, by helping her reclaim her body and unseating the demon from her native realm. 
The attempt was not successful. 
While struggling with the demon, she was helpless as her mentor was torn out of the fight, and then she confronted the demon alone. 
Like her mentor, she fell unwitting into the demon's trap, tasting the demon's triumph as she was ripped from her body once more and cast into oblivion. 

The demon foiled his plan by siring new incarnations of him and her -- as twin brothers. 
The minds of their former selves were suppressed in these new incarnations. 
Their captivity had given both of them an aptitude for magic that was recognized and trained. 
Their testing and training included ordeals that would cause them to reawaken to themselves. 
They were separated at the time of their reawakening. 
Pursuing a lead in the search for his father, Morgan recognized the demon for what it was when he confronted it. 
His attempt to slay the demon prompted it to take possession of him, returning his soul to the inner realm where he would encounter the "girl of his dreams."
Logan went in search of Morgan after hearing a rumor that his brother had found their father before the man was found slain. 
Time had never been "normal" for the immortals. 
Unaware that "he" was her other half, she elected to take up her mentor's mission -- assuming that her own body was forfeit, she was determined that her beloved would not suffer the same fate. 
The two versions of Morgan "pooled" their resources to take on the demon, succeeding in driving it out and reclaiming the altered body. 
The demon surrendered Morgan's body in the midst of a slaughter, possessing a new host and leaving Morgan to take the blame for its handiwork. 
The two versions of Morgan worked out a system for sharing their body, a process that included manifesting the sex of the dominant personality. 
Believing themselves to be two different people, they reintroduced her to the world as his bride. 
When Logan finally caught up to and confronted Morgan, she had been accepted by the rest of the family. 
To explain their "seperation" the family was informed that "he" was off in pursuit of his father's killer -- unfortunately, the ship he was supposed to have been on was lost at sea with all hands. 
To further complicate things, Logan confronted Morgan with the truth; the man she had "married" had been a reincarnation of herself. 





