35 words as chapter numbers or section dividers
29540 words

The Price of Dreams
by avmorgan, Jul 2, 2009, 6:15:49 PM
Literature / Prose / Fiction / Fantasy




"We never remember the beginning," she said quietly. "We pretend not to know why—but then that is one of our favorite tricks, isn't it?" she glanced up at me, smiling at my confused silence. With her arms crossed she began to drift about the room, examining objects while continuing this strange introduction. "We pretend not to know many things. We can even pretend not to know the truth. The horrible truth. But the beginning?" she paused and met my eye in the mirror. "Well there is an explanation for that one. We never remember the beginning because there never was a beginning. That's one of those horrible parts of the truth we choose to miss."

"What do you mean?" I asked. Her choice of words—the horrible truth—bothered me inexplicably. I wanted to argue with her; I wanted to point out the fact that there are many beginnings and how easy it is to remember most of them. The urge to argue was so strong that I felt suspicious of it. She turned to face me, and the look she gave me made me feel like I had asked the wrong question. She was waiting for my argument. But, before I could think of the right question to ask, she spoke.

"You know what I mean."

For a moment I didn't know if she was answering the question I had asked or the question I was thinking: What horrible truth? Or were they the same thing?

"We never remember the beginning," she went on, not even sparing me a second look, "until the very end; because there is no end either. None of which makes sense, of course, until you risk looking at the truth. I wish I could tell you that truth. Honestly."

"You can," I assured her, hoping for something to define this conversation.

She smiled to herself. A rather frightening smile. "You can't tell people things they already know. Or think they know. How am I supposed to tell you something you think you don't know?" She laughed. It was a mesmerizing sound. "Knowing the truth is deceptively easy. It is like listening to what people say. Not just hearing their voice, but realizing what they are saying to you."

She wasn't looking at me. I doubt she was looking at anything in particular. It struck me suddenly that she was posed in the perfect expression of listening. So when she spoke again, it startled me.

"You can't make people listen to you without tricking them. The truth is the same way. The only difference is that the truth is a constant. It doesn't have to repeat itself."

"What?" I asked, almost solely out of reflex; as if by being startled I might have missed something important.

"We never remember the beginning," she said quietly, precisely as she had before. I looked at her with a frown, but she carried on without regarding it. "We pretend not to know why—but then that is one of our favorite tricks, isn't it? We pretend not to know many things. We can even pretend not to know the truth. The horrible truth.

"But the truth?" she held that in the air a moment, and looked at me pointedly. She held up her hands for emphasis. Realizing that the question was not rhetorical, I nodded. "The truth is," she measured out her words, "I can remember the beginning." Before I could ask the beginning of what she cut me off with a gesture, and resumed the pose of listening. This caused an agitation in me. I have never considered myself an insensitive man. Indeed I have prided myself on my sensativity to the subtlest of cues. As a child I was so sensitive that there were times I could not distinguish my own thoughts from those of people around me. I don't know where such thoughts could have come from, but my best guess has been that I read their state of mind so well from their body language that I thought sympathetic thoughts for them. What am I driving at? Well, at that moment, her gesture struck me so suddenly she might have just as well screamed listen! at the top of her lungs.

That shock made it clear to me that she was communicating deliberately on many levels, verbal and non-verbal. I brought my mind into focus and met her eye. Her body was governed by a poise unlike anything I had known. Without a word, she managed to express her awareness of my realization. My eyes widened and she nodded with the faintest smile. The clearest thought chimed in my head, ears hear, but the mind listens... the mind listens with every sense and it becomes a sense. Can you read my mind? I was nodding my head before I even thought to question the orign of the thought.

I fell into a quiet of mind; a state of heightened awareness. I didn't have to question what beginning she was talking about, because suddenly it was obvious what beginning we are each oblivious to. The beginning of awareness; of our selves. She smiled broadly at me and nodded assertively. Without further distractions she continued her story.

"Oh, I can call it the beginning because I can remember before that moment... I remember that I could have prevented what happened. I could have done anything else in creation, but once begun there was nothing I could do to stop it. Because at that moment I changed. Oh, I want to say that it was indescribable, but what happened to me was so vivid, so utterly real that it replaced creation in my own mind." She writhed against the limits of the words; a movement at once seductive, sensual and painful. Her attention seemed to withdraw from the world into some all consuming inner vision. "It was the moment I saw creation in the minds of the others.

"And there at the center of everyone's attention was me," she whispered. I felt a horrible echo of her meaning as I felt her at the very center of my own attention. Even she was caught up unselfconsciously in the lure of that powerful suggestion.

"It sounds simple, but it could not have been," her voice sounded contemplative. Remote. "On the other side of the beginning there had been a flicker, the slightest glimmer in the corner of my eye. I had barely noticed this thing, a suggestion of measurable complexity," she began to look entranced, her words coming out as if across a great distance of time. "I knew instinctively that I understood this thing, even before I had identified it. It came to me like a sensation. Unfolding and embracing me. Growing in detail and possibilities before my awakening curiosity. With growing delight I chased this wondrous image, a dream promising to fulfill all I could desire. It tested everything I could understand. I even understood who the others were. I knew them as well as I knew myself. And then I knew something was wrong. And I knew it was too late.

"There it was. My understanding laid bare before me and at once I could tell that it exceeded my consciousness. The others had held up a mirror to my mind's eye and shown me nothing more than myself. Conscious now of the memory of that pure unconscious understanding I was changed.

"That I should embrace death so! That death is a sudden rude awakening!" she clenched her fist and eyes tightly; caught up in the pain of this memory. It was all I could do not to interrupt. I had to resist the disturbing notion that I was listening to some kind of poetic drama rather than an experience from her life. In her stance I read her frustration; the kind of agitation of a person who simply cannot find words to express an idea or a feeling. 

"To become so sharply aware of myself and understand in that moment that I knew nothing," she confessed, abandoning her tension. She rested her figertips against her temples as she went on, "Here in my naked mind there were no concepts or thoughts by which I might harness this understanding. And yet, my first memory is a moment of self conception. There in the light of this limitless understanding I thought, this is me."

She paused and turned to look at me directly. I had the palpable feeling that she had stepped back into reality a moment to comment, "You remember your first thought, because you are your first thought. That is the secret. At first you are incapable of thought. You look at the world passively for eternity, then suddenly you realize you are there. You have defined yourself apart from the world, so naturally you begin to try to define the world. You try to fill the void; you begin to think. Analyze." She shuddered, "Unless you are conceived in doubt. God help those who begin with the thought: this is not me. How powerless that must make you feel. To recognize the world but fail to recognize yourself..." She trailed off and became distant again.

"Then," she resumed, as if she had not interrupted herself, "I turned and really looked at the others. I can remember their experiences of that time as well as my own because at that moment I was aware of them only in the sense that they resembled myself. I was only aware of their minds; I was only aware of them as what they understood. I understood this, and I understood them. Understanding them, I understood what they knew and in that second breath I knew. I knew in a limited fashion that this assumption of their knowledge was barely within the limits of their conception. However, their knowledge brought me only confusion. Unlike the constant sensation that came with my self awareness, or the understanding from which I had been embodied, there was nothing definite, certain or clear about the connection between what they knew and what they understood. By the time I could grasp the meaning of what I had glimpsed I no longer had any kind of advantage. I lacked so much experience. In fact I was forced to realize that my existence was in danger.

"Sensing this, knowing it as surely as I can know anything, I wonder if I am truly any different from anyone else. Do I really remember this moment I call the beginning or have I, like the rest of them, dared that unforgivable error and looked too closely at the truth. Do I suddenly see the beginning so clearly because I have reached the end of my existence?" she stopped abruptly, startled by her own words. Suddenly her story seemed forgotten, and she visibly began to reconsider what she had begun. Smoothly, swiftly she swept over beside me and sat on the couch facing me. "Is that why I have hidden here among those who are aware of the existence of god the way we are all aware of the truth? Fearfully unexamined?" she asked me, the first honest question she had asked me since our initial meeting. Showing an honest need for an answer from me. So specifically from me that part of my soul ached. "Do I ask you to help me write this only because I fear that in my future I will not be there to represent my own story?"

I could have come up with an answer, and yet I felt it imperative to silently drive her to her own counsel. I recalled the brief conversation that had brought us together. She had been looking for an author. Someone who could tell her story for her, because—mysteriously—she was forbidden to write it herself. I was flattered by her confession that she had sought me out particularly, deliberately ignoring opportunities to approach established writers in favor of me. I was not bothered by her stipulation that while she dared not write a word herself she had to have absolute say over whatever form it took. Far from chaffing at this limitation, I realized how closely we would have to work to fulfill this request, and she was—literally—the woman of my dreams. When she added that not only could she have nothing to do with the actual writing, she could not take any credit or particularly any profits for the completed work. It was such a strange request that I had to at least find out if there was a story to tell. With the little I had heard so far, unintelligible as it was, there was indeed a story. It didn't matter suddenly if it was a real story about a real life.

A thought like that, just at that moment, was more than enough to make me check the state of my sanity and empathize deeply with the suggestion of mortal peril on the part of this young woman. I had no doubts that this was a far out story so far. Yet it seemed obviously very real to her. So questioning the reality of the story was tantamount to questioning her reality.

And yet I did not care about such a question. The story was important in its own regard, and I had to be totally impartial about the source of it.

But these thoughts did not pass in an instant as they so conveniently do in books.

She had come to some conclusion on her own in the silent moment. Her eyes scanned a private horizon, seemingly measuring the height and breadth of the untold story. Rhetorically, her question snapped the silence oddly close to the mark of my own mused image. "Or is what I've been through enough?"

"Am I to have this written simply so that I can forget and forgive those who tore me out of the majesty of heaven to share an existence where I can be aware of the pain of death and resurrection? Where I can be conscious of the terrible thing I have done to their world mind—so that I can learn how to not look so closely at the horrible truth?" she shared her question in a way I found difficult to take part in. "And yet I am afraid that what I want is as unforgivable as my other sin."

I shook my head slowly, rising to pour myself a drink. I went ahead and poured her one too, not bothering to ask. It was a small interruption, but enough for me to gather my thoughts. As I sat her drink on the coffee table before her I began to speak quietly.

"I am going to apologize first, and ask you to let me finish before you continue this. Or leave, if I offend you." She shrugged, then nodded slightly. "Good. First thing. What is the point of all of this?" I asked, since both of our conversations had barely touched on what it was she wanted of me in specific terms.

She stared at me a moment, either unsure of what I meant or how to answer. I don't know which and she didn't ask me to clarify. She just reached for her glass and took a sip.

"The story is the only point," she said after a long silence.

"Then what is all of this you are trying to tell me? Is this the story? Do I write just what you say?" I asked. But there was more to it than this question. There was a more logical problem, as I tried to explain, "There is a tremendous difference between just telling a story and writing a book. There has to be a point of departure. There has to be some kind of common ground. If the point is for people to read this, then they have to be able to understand what it is you are telling them."

"I am telling you the beginning," she began, but I cut her off.

"What kind of beginning is saying there really isn't a beginning. Or, the beginning is somehow not there until the end?"

"But that is the whole point," she declared, setting down her glass. "I never realized how important that moment was until it was all over. If that moment had not happened, then I would have to describe the whole of creation to explain how what happened could have happened."

I sighed. "Actually, that has nothing to do with it. A writer can start a story any damn way he pleases. All he needs to accomplish is catch the reader's attention. It is sort of funny, but in a sense the problem with your beginning is like what you said. People choose not to know a lot of things, like the truth, but in the ways that it counts they can acknowledge it easily. People know that beginnings are illusions. The writer realizes that the reader knows this and contrives to make the beginning slip past the reader. A good beginning suckers the reader into the story before he or she notices it. So the problem with your beginning is that it makes the reader, or the listener, ask too many questions."

"Is there every anything but at the beginning?" she mused softly, fingers resting lightly on the rim of her drink. Looking up, she flicked her other hand up dismissively. "If it bothers you so much, start at the end. You already know that part." 

I gazed back into her stormy eyes. "You mean this." 

Her response was delivered with a wry grin, "If you like to jump in at the deep end." 

It was hard not to laugh and shake my head. "Didn't this conversation start with me asking you to 'Start from the beginning'?" I asked a bit peevishly. She just shrugged and gave a slight nod. "Do you think maybe you took the question a bit too literally?" I suggested.

She frowned, "I'm not that obtuse. I'll get to my story. There is a lot I am still sorting out and your question got me thinking out loud. I hadn't considered how I would go about telling my story; it's hard to see a beginning when I've always seemed caught up in the middle of things.

"I suppose you could say that this all began because I dared to look myself in the eye and know myself," she confided, rising to her feet with her drink in hand. She took a sip as she resumed pacing. "That is how I know the only way to tell my story is to ask you to write it." 

I frowned and crossed my arms. "Something seems to be missing there," I pointed out. 

She nodded, "It is a kind of paradox. I can only assume that you knew what you were doing all along. Either that, or this is all just a dream and the story of my life just the horrible truth of it." She bowed her head, her hair flowing forward to veil her face. 

A cold shock raced down my spine. 

"When I set out in search of you, I assumed that the books must have already been written," she murmured, her words stepping firmly on my mind. "How else could I have read them? I thought they would lead me to you, I thought maybe this is the wrong world entirely. Then I found you, and I finally understood. You are the end of me. You are my only hope of a beginning." 

I blinked and the world shifted on its axis. I did not need to think about what had drawn me to her, and repulsed me. I realized I was dreaming, amazed at myself for believing even for a moment that I had finally met the girl of my dreams and yet truly be awake. I knew in that instant what she had been trying to tell me, what she had already discovered for herself. I knew her story. I had tried a thousand times to write it and found it too painful every time. "It is true. I know how you got here. I didn't write it. I couldn't write it. I did not want to do this to you. To me," I whispered. 

"Oh, but you must. If you don't, I may as well have never existed, and how then can I know my own story?" she demanded, reaching out and taking my arm in her hands. "Do not doubt for an instant how well you know me – how well I know myself. Even as I am undone, I realize that not only will I not turn a blind eye to the truth, you will see the truth in me."

She was going to force me to see what I always knew was true. She had come to wake me up, and it was going to cost her everything she was. My dream was on its dying breath, and I knew that the girl of my dreams was the girl I had dreamed of being. A girl who chose to face the truth and die instead of living out a lie, and this is where her story begins.



Impulse
July 25, 2009 — eyeofparadox
Who am I? Why am I here? What is the point of my existence? These are questions we all ask at some point in our lives, and we can go our entire lives without knowing the answer. I suspect that a lot of people try to avoid thinking about it, not knowing how to begin answering, and I wonder how long a person can go without asking them. There are an endless number of situations and circumstances that can force a person to confront these questions, and other soul searching questions like them. 

For me, these questions can come up as a result of gender issues, but I’ve had it come up in many other circumstances. The answers, whatever they are, test the limits of my understanding, because in many ways I am just this awareness brought into focus by the sum and gestalt of my understanding. In the scope of my understanding, I am aware that I am not driven by a mere desire to be female. I am driven by an impulse that is at once too simple and too complex for words, because words will never serve to express that impulse. It took root when I found myself in a body I could not express myself properly in. It was only natural for me to become obsessed with finding a better way to express myself. 

I put a lot of thought and effort into figuring out the best way to embody myself in human terms, and because I was thinking in human terms, my self image is based on understanding which compromises with reality allowed me to be as true to myself as possible. Of course, human limitations are based on the limitations of reality, which are the perceived limits of existence — or rather the limits of perception. The plain, simple and painful truth is that I am driven to do something that can not be done within those limits — as we understand them.

I am a person who would have to change the world in order to show myself in it. It is who I am, it is why I am here, and the end — the point — is to have a beginning. It took a long time to understand that I was not limited by what anyone else knew or understood about reality; I can only be limited by my own understanding. At the same time, I realized that people understand a great deal more than they know, and that the truth is pretty much always hidden in plain sight. As I began to see and understand more, I felt the temptation to try to share what I discovered and help enlighten others. 

I got side tracked trying to figure out how to describe and explain what I perceived, losing sight of my original purpose. I do not need anyone to tell me that what I intended to do was “impossible” and I got tied up in wanting to be able to explain how to do the impossible before I threw everything I had into trying to do it. I was focused on breaking down the impossibility of it, identifying precisely what had to occur to acheive what I intended. In spite of myself, I ended up spending a lot of time thinking about how impossible it was to do what I needed to do. 

I should have obeyed my original instinct, and followed my intuition. I let myself get hung up on the consequences of doing the impossible. The question has come up enough in fiction, I had to consider what would happen if I succeeded. To truly be me, I had to stop being the person I appeared to be. I did not know how to do that without hurting people I loved. I was also bothered by the deeper implications of what I intended, and the peculiar insight that motivated me to act. I intended to transform my body, but that was simply how I intended to use the power I perceived in myself, how I would truly show myself. Expressing a power like that would literally change the world. It was never my intention to change the world, but I found myself in a position where it was necessary in order to be true to myself. 

This is what Morpheus was talking about when he told Neo, “there is a difference between knowing the path and walking it.”

I know it sounds insane, and I’m not inclined to convince anyone that it is not. This is mostly a case of me thinking aloud and not much caring who hears. I have spent decades trying to figure out what it would take to accomplish this task, and discovering where I am obstructed by a lack of knowledge, or experience, or resources. I’ve shared bits of speculation in past journals and blogs, and explored the concepts in my fiction, but I can never really capture my thoughts in words. Writing allows me to slow my thoughts down and get some of them out where I can focus on specific ideas. 

I needed to get to the root of what was really bothering me, and even if it sounds crazy, I am more comfortable with what I have said in this post than I have been with any of the posts about being transgendered or needing to transition. Those other posts have forced me to revisit the things that have torn me apart, but in the hope of being understood and accepted I tried to stay within the bounds of what seemed socially acceptable. 

The problem is that transition falls bitterly short of accomplishing what I really need to do. I have paid a huge price to give myself time to think this through, and for the second time in my life been tempted by the practical alternative and found the cost in terms of personal compromise to be too high. It was never an option, because I always believed in myself, even when that belief was undermined by all the doubt in the world. If I cannot act on that belief, is there really any point to living?



Staring into the Face of Truth
July 26, 2009 — eyeofparadox

“A story is as good a way to organize your thoughts as anything else,” she points out, poised in the shadows in the doorway. I quickly conclude that she is playing the part of my conscience. That, or devil’s advocate. Either way, she’s me. I cannot say she does not really exist without implying the same of myself. She is in my mind, and of my mind, so I do not look at her. She cannot be seen, not in the flesh anyway, but it’s not like I have to look at her to see her. “It’s been a long time since you’ve done this, though,” she observes, watching me carefully. I can tell there’s something on her mind. I can feel it. Technically, it’s on my mind, but I have long since learned that her thoughts are her own when she chooses to assert herself. It’s a bit like being in two places at the same time, a way to step outside my normal perspective and look at what I’ve become.

“That’s because it takes more effort than thinking, even if it is no more contrived than any other thing written; it isn’t really a story,” I respond. I do not have to add that this manner of confronting myself is one of the reasons my stories never get finished; she knows that as well as I do.

“It helps when you need someone to talk to, though,” she argues, crossing the room to sprawl on the couch next to my desk. There are times when I wish that I could have visual hallucinations; it would be nice to really see her when she goes to the trouble to try and fit herself into the world. Instead, I can only see her in the way I see what I am reading about in books, from everywhere and nowhere. Of course, with her, there is no book, no words; she is self-rendered thought. “It gives me chance to be myself, too.”

“You mean, get some distance from being like this,” I amend somewhat bitterly, in reference to all the unpleasant facts of my reality. Normally, I do not have the patience to write like this. Once I discovered I could split my attention two or three ways, it did not take long to become good enough at it that I would just talk to myself when I needed someone to talk to. I can confront any part of myself that way, even the parts that are smarter and wiser than I can normally be. I have come to believe that this is what angels and demons are, projections of ourselves, impressions of others and the personification of our hopes, beliefs, fears and doubts. It’s what I think of as five-dimensional thinking. “So, what do I need to talk about?”

“I’ve been thinking about what you posted yesterday. Okay, that’s still weird; it’s as much my post as it was yours,” she sighs and scoots closer to the opposite arm of the couch, tucking her feet under herself. “I know what it has to sound like to anyone who reads it, and if people have trouble understanding and accepting a transgendered person, well…” She cannot finish the thought, because I already know what she is going to say.

“People have a hard time understanding and accepting anyone different from themselves. It took me too long to realize that there is nothing I can do to make anyone understand or accept me. People have to take it upon themselves to understand anything, and it is impossible to truly accept what is not understood. I am inclined to think that an inability to accept something is in fact proof that you do not truly understand it,” I find myself declaring. I had been unable to understand what was expected of me as a child, and so the role imposed on me was unacceptable. When I learned enough to understand what made me a boy, I also understood that I never had a choice, and that was unacceptable. When I worked it out enough to realize I also had no power to change what I was, that too was unacceptable. This lead me to ask some devastating questions. What is the point of being able to choose if you are not given a choice — especially about something that practically defines you? What is the point of living if you are given a life you did not want? “I am not the only one to suspect that there has to be more to life than this, or that there is more to us, for that matter,” I tell her, in response to her unstated concern for what was at the heart of that post.

She tilts her head and shrugs in agreement, picking at imaginary lint on her skirt. “I know, but I did not stop at that, did I?” I can feel her studying me. I can’t really meet her eyes, but I can imagine myself looking over at her, seeing thoughts written on her face.

“I know, some of this is impossible to put into words, but yeah, the post was really about believing in myself and the impulse to act on that belief,” I admit, picking up on the thoughts this little game was bringing to the surface with a small sigh. “Although, there really is nothing hard about changing the world. The world changes with or without our help. What is hard is getting the results you intended. I might have gone out on a ledge by saying what I wanted to do, or why I wanted to do it. If there was a problem with what I posted, it was not being able to say how it could be done.”

She pulls her knees up to her chest and hugs them. I know what she’s thinking, because I am thinking the same thing. I have not been able to invest the time and effort needed to figure that out. “The hard part is not figuring out how it can be done. There’s plenty of scope for the imagination there,” she insists, prompting me to think of thousands of stories I’ve read, and hundreds I’ve tried to write, where suitable means were presented.

“No, the trick is establishing that there are means and methods available, and pushing ourselves beyond our current understanding. It is kind of hard to work on that if it is not your job, though,” I laugh, bitterly. Of course, there is no job like this. That has been the other reason I have been totally lost in this world. That sobers me up. “Honestly, even the little I’ve managed to find time to think about would take a lot of writing, and I don’t need another ‘job’ I don’t get paid to do!”

“And yet you sit up all night writing a blog like this?” she teases.

“Until I figure out what to do, what will make a difference, I don’t really have anything better to do,” I point out tiredly. As usual, I’ve barely scratched the surface of all the things that are on my mind. Writing is too slow and time consuming a way to deal with such thoughts. She looks at me, knowingly, and I shrug. “Things have to be done in their own way. If this were a story, I could skip over all the deep thinking. Even in a simple blog post, I could just focus on making a point. You intended to ask me how this is going to work. What you really want to know is how much more of this you have to endure.” I close my eyes and lean back in my chair. I know what it would take to set her free, and that I have to find it in myself. The problem is, as long as I am not her, I can’t really be me. I roll my head to the right and look at her. She cannot be seen, but she does not let that stop her. An obvious truth, always staring me in the face.



A Spark
September 26, 2009 — eyeofparadox
My eyes opened and this is what I saw. You can in yourself be anything you desire. You create yourself from a point. You define your own existence. A soul defines itself. What words cannot define, they can characterize, so that the truth may be recognized as it is encountered. The existence of a soul is absolute, at once all and nothing. The qualities of a soul are both infinite and eternal. A soul is not a question, nor is a soul an answer. A soul is a statement. A soul is an expression, a unique, individual creation.

While I gazed in wonder, I realized that even before a soul embraces the awareness of other souls, the darkness of a soul embraces the light of other souls, filling the emptiness of its existence with the certainty of others, both as a foundation for its own reality, and a medium for the realization of its self. A soul dreams its dreams, innocent of consequence, immune to concern, often unaware of those who chance to share its dream. But already it is evolving. Its attention expands to encompass a growing understanding of its condition, and its will develops as it struggles to grasp the essence of its awareness.

Then I looked upon myself and had to see that in adopting a design, a soul is often faced with a limitation that arguably compromises or violates its integrity. If, within a given archetype, a design employs mutually exclusive characteristics, a soul, which by its intrinsic nature encompasses the gamut of mutually exclusive characteristics, can be stifled by the emphasis of its adopted design. Confounded by an exclusive emphasis, a soul is often compelled to find expression elsewhere. The diafracture of a soul can result in the functional and dysfunctional aspecting of a soul. The fact that such a situation can occur is not in itself damning or flawed, but a certain sophistication is needed to distinguish between a functional and a dysfunctional emphasis.

I looked upon my life and considered what was there to see. As the soul evolves, it creates. Constantly grasping existence anew and refining its understanding, recreating its universe. The power of its dreaming creating dreams. And in its dreams, it begins to experience moments of clarity. The questions and answers that it eternally weaves suddenly resolve and it awakens to a world. There was so much wonder in that. One soul can give birth to all souls, for that which can conceive of itself, can conceive of others, and in conceiving of others, can conceive of others that can conceive of themselves, and those that can conceive of themselves and each other can conceive of that which can conceive of itself.

So I understood, that one soul, dreaming of many, makes an invitation. The souls, dreaming of themselves, realizing the same truth, making the same invitation, are revealed to each other. Thus souls born dreaming alone, become souls dreaming alone together.

It took so little effort to put this epiphany to words, but the longer I looked at it, I realized that so much of it was beyond words. So much will ever be beyond words, and perhaps that is why the relationship between the body and the spirit is easier to describe than the relationship of mind and soul. Like the soul, a mind is a possession of itself, but unlike the soul, the mind is vulnerable. In a way, mind is a soul’s way of transcending itself. A soul can touch, and can be touched, only through its mind. The mind exists at a crucial threshold, as a premier interface between the individual and the infinite. Where every soul is a thing of innate perfection, each mind is a unique work of art. A mind is a soul’s way of representing itself.

At the same time, I could not help but notice that a mind is also a soul’s way of influencing itself. The power of a mind is derived of itself, in the expression of its soul. Mind is key to existence. The function of mind, to make dreams into reality, is demonstrated in our own realization of each other. The ambition or promise of mind, to realize the ideal, is demonstrated in our insistence on finding meaning in what we experience. In the world, the mind — not the body — is the seat of the soul. The mind is so central to existence that people are often blind to it, though nothing within it is ever hidden from the soul. If the soul could be said to be the light of our awareness, then the mind is the lens through which that light is focused.

It is a lens shaped by the soul, as much as by experience. It is intimately personal, yet exposed to everything. A possession of itself, a mind is also an object, a thing that can be grasped, manipulated, probed, and even possessed by, or shared, with another. I know that seems to imply telepathy, but even if there is something to that implication, there is reason enough for us to find it unsupportable. No intimacy can compare to what the mind can invite, and that is what makes telepathy, or any true example of what we would think of as psychic potential particularly difficult and dangerous for us to accept. Even without telepathy, we have enough ways to know each others’ minds. Even without other psychic abilities, we are capable of realizing that in order for the mind to influence reality, it must open itself, and become vulnerable. Only a strong, stable, healthy mind could bear to be so naked to reality. Only an open mind can touch naked reality.

Or maybe I should say, only a closed mind can avoid it. That is sort of the paradox of the position we find ourselves in. It is not our minds that define the limits of our grasp of reality, but the manner in which we perceive it. We give precedence to the senses of our body, as if the fact that our minds truly make sense of what we perceive means that the mind itself has no means of perception. And yet, all that we can ever truly know, we know only in the mind. Our connection to the physical universe we perceive as containing us lies solely in the information our minds derive from our perception of the world. The world we exist in is contained in that information, as much as that information is contained in the structure of the world, so the world we experience is really just an idea of the world. What that information really is or what it represents we are unable to know, because it can only be observed indirectly—if at all.

Our senses provide a very limited perspective. Our physical senses only provide the mechanism for transforming electrical and chemical impulses into information, perception itself is rooted in them and thus in the body, but only in the full focus of consciousness is perception truly realized, and only the mind perceives meaning and purpose. If you take the mind out of the process, information ceases to be a meaningful concept. Even limiting the mind to the function of processing information, storing and correlating data, the mind becomes distinct from the brain and nervous system by virtue of perceiving information. That transition to an information state crosses the same boundary between that which is purely physical in nature to that which is mental, or psychic or spiritual in nature. If one must look for a reason to accept these diverse terms, a justification for a soul as well as a mind, all I can offer is the common observation that what ultimately distinguishes one of us from another is the possession of our own awareness. That awareness is not always conscious and focused and it is not always neatly confined to the bounds of our own minds or even the bounds of our bodies or the world those bodies exist in. Also, while the minds provide that awareness with structure, the awareness is not passive. Awareness penetrates and pervades us, active and impulsive, persistent and pensive, focused in both understanding and intent.

It has taken me a long time to find the words to capture what I glimpsed, and that was neither the first nor the last glimpse I’ve had. I am sorry to say that these words only offer a glimpse of what I saw. If I thought I would live a long and productive life, I still do not think I could do more than scratch the surface of all that I have seen. In the life I have, I have barely made a scratch.



In a way, I knew the origin and history of the world in her story better than I know her story. There are other paradoxes, but that's what happens in a world with magic and miricles in play. To think or write about it, I had to employ the concepts and contexts I grew up with--even as I was growing into them. I took the existential approach and explored it top-down, as opposed to the scientific bottom-up method. 

I started with the absolute and immediately ran into point paradox. Defining the absolute presents an endless problem, the simplest of which is that an absolute can be represented as zero, one and infinity unanimously. I worked through it, and then, armed with an understanding of the absolute and paradox, I quickly had a model for existence that worked for the story and even accomodated reality as I knew it. 

I expected to need several books to walk an audience through an explanation, but much of it could be thrown out immediately as articles of faith. In the beginning there was a dream, and in that dream there was a garden. As the garden grew and thrived, life became more complicate and interesting; inevitably waking up and realizing existence. 

It was wonderful and horrifying, because it was young and fragile and ignorant. Life was fascinating but also threatening to entities who--however conscious--were merely dreams. Life gave souls a chance to discover themselves independent of the absolute, and their living presence and participation infused the world with reality, diminishing the influence of dreamers. 

It sparked a conflict between those who saw life as a threat and reality as hell, and those who saw life as an opportunity and reality as a trial essential for a soul's independence. That was where the demon of the naked goddess fell, indifferent to the war as it hunted for a particular soul in the realm of free souls. As reality hardened, the demon was forced to acquire hosts to continue its quest, collecting a new one every time it was forced to abandon a mortal shell. 

I knew that a dragon was the first victim, and I knew that as other souls were captured, they took refuge in a dream in which they were like gods. As she said, over time that dream took on a life of its own and eventually became a reality. It took a long time for the naked goddess to present herself, and when the gods of the inner realm began to turn on each other, she was one of the last to withdraw from humanity. The majority had converted to a form of monotheism, and tried to eridicate belief in the gods.



"I've spent a lot of time trying to figure out why you were born when you were," I told her, breaking the silence stretching between us. "I think the naked goddess came to terms with her existence and would have been content with what she became, if not for the purge. On learning the truth about the gods, one of their children set out to claim their power for his own. He died in the cataclysm, but not before he inspired others to take up the same pursuit.

"His mistake was making a direct frontal assault on a member of the Host," I pointed out, and getting a nod in confirmation. "It worked a couple of times, and he managed to destroy the mind of his target. The first time, he caused the demon to possess him, taking him into the Host. Some of his other victims were just in a vulnerable position, mentally. A well timed nudge, and they unwittingly destroyed their own minds.

"It did not go unnoticed, and he came under suspicion. When confronted, he attacked and in the process of tearing down his accusor's mind, he provoked the demon, with cataclysmic results," I concluded.  


