[Rough Drafts]
-------------
The Eve of Paradox

Book One of The Threshold

Two individuals, born in separate realities, cross the threshold between fact and fiction to confront a threat to both worlds, and glimpse the truth behind existence itself.

Chapters – A1 A2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7

This project combines fantasy and science fiction to explore the nature of its protagonists and that of their native worlds. In worlds where the boundaries between magic and technology merge, and mere human beings have harnessed that power, it is the human question that comes to the fore, and the human psyche that waits to be explored.

Over the years, I have tried to develop ideas into book form. Typically, these manuscripts are pushed aside incomplete as other demands are made on my time and when I am able to return to them I find myself unable to pick up the thread where I left off. I thought it would be interesting to present one of these here as a rough example of my work. There are some mature themes, so take that under advisement. If you are not mature enough to deal with adult content, be mature enough not to read it. Originally published on FictionPress.com under the pen name avmorgan.

The first two chapters included here were part of the original writing for the Eve of Paradox and would occur before the current Chapter One.

 

 

Chapter Aside One

An elaborate peaked awning sheltered the main entrance to Redleaf Manor. It was a welcome respite for a weary traveler forced to navigate her way through the Port and City of Avon in the pounding rain. She paused, a pale, slender hand emerging to flip the wings of her cloak back over her shoulder and push back the hood. As she did so, it appeared as if a giant, invisible hand swept over her, sluicing the excess water from her clothes and hair. She checked the satchel at her hip to make sure its contents were not affected by the weather, and had in fact not been left behind on the ship that brought her. Finding evidence of neither mishap, she sighed and reached for the front bell. Her hand paused an inch away from the bell pull, and she took a deep breath to compose herself.

“Stop stalling, Morgan,” snapped a voice that only she could hear.

“That’s easy for you to say, Logan” Morgan murmured under her breath. Her eyes flickered toward the apparition. He was not always visible to her, but she was always aware of his presence in her mind. “You’re not the bearer of bad news here.”

“No. I’m just the bad news,” the ghost retorted with a smirk.

“You’re bad news alright. Especially if they catch on to your presence,” she reminded him, raising her voice to audible levels for emphasis.

“Well I’m not the one who keeps getting caught talking to someone who isn’t there. You’re the psychic, why can’t you remember to project your thoughts?” he reprimanded her for the hundredth time.

“I told you before; I can see you and hear you as if you’re actually there. To me, you aren’t dead, you aren’t a ghost. When you show up at my elbow and start talking to me, I’m talking back to you before I realize what I’m doing,” Morgan explained.

“I appreciate that, I guess, but it doesn’t change anything. I’m not ‘out there’ and you can’t keep reacting as if I am. It’s an illusion. You need to break free of it, Morgan. Or at least stay on your guard. Maybe it’s best that we’ve come here,” he declared, reaching out a spectral hand and clasping the bell pull.

“Logan! Wait–” Morgan tried to intercept the psychokinetic action, kicking her mind into high gear so she would be able to “grasp” the phantom, but Logan had caught her off guard once more. The front bell rang with a deep, penetrating throb. Morgan glared at the ghost and composed herself quickly as she felt a presence approaching the door from within. That was an unfortunate consequence of making unusual demands of her gifts. The deeper she tapped into her potential, the more open and vulnerable her psyche became. There was a brief pause in the resident’s footsteps, in which a chime rang out to notify the staff that someone was responding to the visitor.

That someone, Morgan noticed at once, had a strong mental presence, a great deal of untapped psychic potential. Before she could prevent it, Morgan was treated to a sudden glimpse of the world through a stranger’s eyes. As always, the experience was mildly shocking and disorienting. Her mind became absorbed in assimilating information from an unfamiliar perspective. In the blink of an eye, Morgan was privy to the perceptions of a woman a few years older than herself :. as she replaced the servants’ bell on a side table in the foyer and reached for the latch. .:

“Amanda,” Morgan whispered, as the woman’s name surfaced in her mind along with the echo of her perceptions.

The specter beside her gave Morgan a startled look, taking note of the way her irises dilated as she slipped into a telepathic trance. He understood what that meant. For the next few moments, at least, she was going to be lost in the tides and currents of an alien mind. It was an experience he had tasted only once, and he had paid dearly for it.

:. Amanda opened the door to admit the sounds and smell of rushing rain, revealing a somewhat travel worn youth in Initiate garb poised in the shelter of the awning. The resident paused to study the visitor appreciatively, noticing at once that the stranger’s stormy grey eyes were on the same level as hers, dominating a pale face with delicate, feminine features–all framed by an unruly mane of damp crimson hair. Glancing down for a moment, Amanda took in the cut and fit of the visitor’s clothes, and the slender body they concealed. What she saw was a tall boy no more than fifteen summers old. Her mind tripped from that observation through a string of loose associations. A collage of boys introduced to manhood under her gentle ministrations flickered through her memory, underscored by the tenets of the vocation passed down to her through her mother. Then her mind composed itself around another observation, in amusement. If it were a month earlier, it would not even be necessary to ask about his business. Instead, as she brought her eyes back up to meet his, she had to wonder what he was doing this far from the Academy, three weeks into the autumn term. .:

“Welcome to Redleaf Manor,” :. Amanda greeted belatedly. .:

“Now would be a good time to introduce yourself, Morgan,” the ghost suggested, giving the dazed, young red-head a solid nudge. Morgan remained entranced, so Logan continued to poke at her.

:. Amanda leaned forward a bit, quirking an eyebrow in growing curiosity. Another amused thought rolled close to the surface, apprehended by her nimble mind without articulation. Whatever introduction the boy had been prepared to make seemed to have fled his mind during her brief appraisal. As she studied him, he rocked back, blinking and shaking his head slightly. Amber smirked, imagining he had been stunned by her good looks. Her humor deepened when she noticed his lips moving, as if he was conversing with himself or rehearsing his introduction. .:

Morgan’s inarticulate response to Logan’s goading, was pure reflex. On a deeper level she was struggling to form her own thoughts. It was an effort akin to swimming for the shore while in grip of a rip tide.

“That was just mumbling, Morgan. Let’s try for something coherent, now,” Logan coached, encouraged by the first signs of a response from the psychic. “Pull it together, Girl. You can do it.“

“–she is… –she thinks I’m… –and that…!” Morgan murmured.

“What can I do for you?” :. Amanda prompted, straining to hear what the boy was muttering to himself. He stopped suddenly and stared at her, as if aware of her interest. He closed his eyes and took a deep breath. Amanda cocked her head, finding it prudent to wait while he collected his wits. .:

It took a moment for Morgan to suppress the stream of thoughts and impressions from Amanda and shield herself from the prodding of phantom fingers. She let her breath out slowly, silently projecting her thoughts. “You can stop now, Logan. I’m coming out of it. She just… threw me for a loop.” As a telepath, she had learned long ago that people who existed in the same world did not necessarily live in the same reality. It was all just a matter of perspective. Composing herself, she shot off an accusative thought at Logan, “You didn’t tell me she was a courtesan!“

“Are you going to answer her or not?“

Morgan gave him the mental equivalent of a glare. The sense of being in two places–of being two people–at once had receded as she restored her mental discipline. Morgan opened her eyes and attempted to respond to Amanda’s question. “I’m sorry, I–“

“Who is at the door?” an imperious, female voice called out through the house, interrupting Morgan.

Amanda winced visibly at the tone. “It’s a boy, Mother. From the Academy,” Amanda called back over her shoulder, oblivious to the way Morgan twitched, but accurately clapping a hand on her shoulder to drag her in through the door.

A murmur of voices accompanied the abrupt action, a servant speaking with the lady of the house, then the woman raised her voice again, “Angels, Amanda! Bring them in, whoever they are, and shut the door! You’re causing a draft!”

“As you say,” Amanda replied with a strained smile, sealing the entrance with an audible thunk. “Well, then. What brings you? And do speak quickly,” she demanded, slipping her hand away from Morgan’s shoulder and waving the “boy” forward into the house.

Morgan hastened to comply, fumbling to produce a sheaf of papers from the satchel slung at her hip. As she presented the letters to the daughter of the house, she attempted again to correct the other woman’s assumption. “I’m afraid I’m not–” was all she could get out, however.

Amanda had taken one look at the articles Morgan produced and interrupted her timid protest to call out a correction to her mother, “He seems to be a messenger.”

There was a long pause, before the Amanda’s mother replied, “Very well. Show him to my sitting room, and then see to the necessary arrangements.”

“Please, there’s something you need to understand–” Morgan tried to preempt the older girl.

“I’d love to hear what this is about, really, but it’s best that you speak to Mother first. Come along,” Amanda declared firmly, grabbing Morgan by the upper arm this time and escorting her swiftly out of the vaulted foyer.

They passed under the arch of curved, grand double stair cases, through a short passage under the second floor landing. Halfway down, the passage was intersected by side corridors to the right and left that, according to what Morgan picked up from Amanda, ran the length of the building. A few more steps brought them out into the main hall. Like the foyer, the main hall was a vaulted chamber extending up to the third floor, framed on the near end by an identical set of curved staircases that met at a landing on the second floor. At the center of the hall, to either side, were decorative archways leading into grand scale rooms suitable for hosting large parties. The far end was enclosed by the entrance to a glassed-in atrium, through which Morgan could see an exit to the rear garden.

While Morgan was taking in her surroundings, Amanda rambled on, “Mother has been like this since the start of the rainy season. If you ask me, she is simply put out because we do not have any girls to train this year. Not for lack of interest, you understand. Mother was a renowned courtesan before she wed Father, and turned Redleaf into a finishing school. No, there are plenty of girls desperate to come up under her wing, and no few noble houses eager to see their daughters’ educations rounded off and polished here. Unfortunately, this is the year my youngest brother completed his initiation and we must focus on his marriage. Or, his bride, if one is to be specific.”

“His… bride?” Morgan slipped the question in uneasily.

“Yes, my brother is remaining at the Academy for some advanced studies, but his betrothed, Hannah, is supposed to arrive here this week for some ‘advanced studies’ of her own,” Amanda confided with a suggestive wink.

“His betrothed!? He didn’t–” Morgan attempted to protest.

“You sound surprised. It’s hardly uncommon, you know. I suppose you find the idea of having your wife chosen for you unsettling. Most boys do. Although,” Amanda drew out conspiratorially, tapping a finger to her chin thoughtfully, “it is odd that he was stuck with this engagement, and not one of our older brothers. I suppose the girl’s parents wanted them to grow up together, and poor Logan just happened to have been born at the right time.” Amanda sighed theatrically. Turning right, just before reaching the atrium, she led Morgan to a side door, which she opened. Entering the unlit chamber, she gestured for Morgan to follow her.

Morgan just nodded, struggling to keep her thoughts from her face.

“The point being, Mother’s been at loose ends for a month. Quite irritable, so it’s best not to try her patience. Here now,” Amanda came to a sudden stop in darkness. The courtesan murmured an activation phrase to bring up the lights, revealing a magnificently furnished room. “This is Mother’s sitting room. You’re in a sorry state, so I’m afraid you’ll have to stand here and be careful not to touch anything. Give me your cloak. Do you have a kit?”

Morgan shook her head, “Everything is being carted up from the port.”

“Oh? You’ve come with freight?” Amanda asked with faint surprise. She helped Morgan slip off her cloak and folded it carefully over one arm. Rather than wait for Morgan’s answer, she hypothesized, “I suppose that would be Hannah’s belongings from the Academy. I should have thought of that. Well, I’ll have our groom look out for the porter.” Amanda gave the room and the visitor a brief final examination, and then clapped a hand on Morgan’s shoulder again. “I think that’s everything. Mother will be along shortly. I’ll have a bath drawn and a room prepared for you by the time she is through with you. You will be joining the staff in the kitchen for supper, I suppose.”

“But I–” Morgan tried to stop her, to save her the trouble.

“Please. No false modesty. Bed and board is the least you can expect in a civilized household. You will not find us mean in that respect. It’s not as if there will be a ship departing before you could make your way back to the port in this weather. It would be a pity to slog off to some damp, drafty ale house, to bed down on stale straw with naught but a sheet of wool for a blanket, when all the comforts of this house lie idle. No?” Amanda challenged, slipping her hand down Morgan’s arm to give her bare hand a warm squeeze.

Morgan stood speechless.

“That’s a good boy. Now, wait right here for my Mother. I need to get everything ready, so I’m afraid you will have to introduce yourself. I’ll be sure to check on you later, once you’re settled in,” Amanda escaped with a wink and a glancing kiss to the “boy’s” cheek, grinning at the blush that appeared on Morgan’s face.

Morgan stood silent for a moment, trying to decide if the other girl really had propositioned her. Between Amanda’s thoughts and actions, though, it was hard to reach any other conclusion. But even if she had been flirting with Morgan, Amanda had revealed something even more disturbing. Taking a deep breath, she made sure there was no one in earshot and turned an outraged eye toward Logan. “You were betrothed to Hannah!?”

The ghost paused in the act of exploring the room to quirk an eyebrow at Morgan, as if he was surprised she had not known.

“Don’t give me that look, Logan. How could you neglect to mention something like that!?” Morgan hissed, trying to keep her voice down.

“This isn’t the time to discuss this,” he declared, gesturing toward the door. Faint footsteps could be heard approaching.

Morgan tightened her hands into fists. “No, it isn’t! We should have talked about this a long time ago! How could you bring me here without warning me about something as important as that?” she demanded in a hurt voice.

“Hush. Mother’s here,” he warned, fading out of view.

“Damn,” Morgan fumed under her breath, turning to watch the door.

The woman who entered the sitting room was the obvious source of both Logan and Amanda’s good looks. She was a woman bred and reared specifically to please powerful, wealthy or important men. Though she must have been in her forties of fifties, she still presented the image of a stunning and cultured young woman. Unlike her mahogany haired offspring, however, she had hair as brilliantly red as Morgan herself. The woman commented on that significant trait immediately.

“Arden’s Blood. What a pity you are a boy,” Amanda’s mother commented. She approached Morgan and took a lock of her hair between her fingers to examine it. She responded automatically to Morgan’s look of confusion, lecturing, “There was a time when color this pure was the mark of royalty or nobility. It thrives as the mark of Arden’s favor, a blessing most desirable in our daughters and a curse most despised in our sons. The maidens we train to please our lords and masters, and the men we shun—except to warm our beds in secret, in hopes of granting our daughters the mark of favor. Your mother, alas, was not fortunate.”

Morgan was startled by this sudden speech. Pages of forgotten history were stirred to mind, legends about the origins of her people she had not known she had learned. Stories of a goddess who took in the human survivors of the cataclysm that ended the war of the gods, living among them and bearing children. Children who formed the refugees into a nation—which was named for the goddess—and ruled over the lands she had provided. They and their descendants had inherited the crimson hair and pale complexion of Arden, displaying it as proof of their lineage and authority: Arden’s Blood.

Unfortunately, the kings and lords of Arden were overly generous with their affections, littering the domains with illegitimate offspring. Thus, the royal and noble houses undermined their own authority. These illegitimate sons and daughters, if they did not find service with the goddess, had often sought out the power that was supposed to be their birthright. Ill chosen alliances with wealthy merchant houses resulted in a tide of coups and conspiracies where the royal and noble houses were torn down, and those upstart lords and princes were in turn betrayed by their supporters. Ultimately, there were no legitimate heirs to the noble seats or the throne of Arden, and Arden’s Blood became the mark of illegitimacy. Men who settled down and attempted to establish themselves became the targets of the new ruling houses, for fear they would gain popular support and attempt to lay claim to power. The women, always prized for their beauty and longevity, remained valuable prizes, but were forced into a role that forbade them from marrying into royal or noble houses. The alternative, service to the goddess, also forbade marriage. It had become nearly impossible for a favored child to be born with any kind of legitimacy.

The woman released the lock of hair and glided over to a chair. Settling down, she looked up at Morgan and introduced herself, “I am Amelia, Mistress of Redleaf Manor. May I have the honor of knowing you name?”

“I am called Morgan. Recently of the Aeryn Tear Academy,” Morgan replied after a faint hesitation.

“Recently of?” Amelia took notice of the qualifier. It suggested Morgan could not properly claim the affiliation, and had no other to offer in introduction. She gave a thoughtful smile, indulging in the pleasure of deduction, “Yet, you are still dressed as an Initiate. You seem a bit young to have completed your training, boy. But then, as you are on the business of the Academy, you would be entitled to dress as you are, even if your training has ceased. Very well, then, what news do you have for me from the Academy?” She reached out her hand to receive the letters in Morgan’s hand.

“It is… it’s about your son, mostly. I’m afraid it is not good news.” Morgan extended her hand with less confidence than she had in presenting the same missives to Amanda. Knowing what the letters contained, Morgan was forced to bite her lip as Amelia studied her warily. She kept her arm extended until the older woman took the messages and examined the seals. Amelia selected the message from Logan, breaking the seal and reading in silence for several long minutes. The woman frowned, glancing up to study Morgan at the conclusion of the first page.

“What do you make of this?” Amelia demanded, adjusting the page and reading aloud:

“When I came closer, I realized that I had been looking at a naked girl washed up on the beach. I rushed to her side, fearing that I had come upon a corpse. To my relief she was merely unconscious, no doubt having passed out once she reached the safety of the shore. I saw no signs of a shipwreck, but it was obvious she had come in with the tide. I carried her back to my room, leaving her in bed to warm up, while I went for a physician. She was awake when the physician and I returned, and we discovered that she had no idea where she was or how she had arrived. While she could recall her name and age, that was all she knew about who she was or where she came from. Physically, she turned out to be in perfect condition. There were no signs of drugs or head trauma. It was as if someone had deliberately wiped her mind of all but the most basic details.

“It’s only necessary to look at her to know she ought to be a courtesan, and I swear the training is obvious in how she moves and carries herself. I do not believe that is what she truly is, however. She also seems to be a skilled gymnast and fencer. Most important of all, she is psychic. My guess is that she was a spy. It certainly seems plausible, given the lengths someone went to in order to eliminate her.

“I have never seen another person my age who possessed such extraordinary abilities, Mother. The idea that there might be someone ready to kill her on sight makes me wary of turning her over to the authorities. If I were one of the men who ditched her at sea, I would be on the look out for reports of bodies washed up on shore, alive or dead.

“Obviously, you are better equipped to help her than I am. The problem is finding a way to deliver Morgan to you without drawing the attention of whoever attempted to kill her.”

Amelia stopped there and gave Morgan a stern look. “This person my son is describing, it is you.” Though it was not a question, Morgan understood that the woman expected her to acknowledge the fact. At Morgan’s brief nod, Amelia tilted her head and narrowed her eyes in interest. “Tell me, was it your intention to pass yourself off as a boy?”

Morgan blushed. “Oh, the clothes. I didn’t have anything of my own, so I had to borrow some things Logan had outgrown. It was that or go naked.”

“Well, that’s sufficient for an answer. My dear girl, it takes more than mere clothing to pass as a man, particularly to deceive a courtesan. I suspect my son was correct about you. You’ve been trained in deception, and use that skill without even thinking about it,” Amelia concluded, the glimmer of analytical delight in her eye again.

Morgan looked away, troubled by the notion that she might have been some sort of spy or assassin. “I’m sorry, then. It was not my intention to deceive you. To be honest, I am quite eager to clear up that same misunderstanding with your daughter as soon as possible.”

“I am sure you will, although, I do not think that will accomplish what you hope.” Amelia chuckled to herself, envisioning the poor girl’s reaction to Amanda’s stubborn affections. Then she concluded her observations. “Since it should not have been difficult to find you proper clothes at the Academy, I imagine my son thought it would be safer for you, traveling alone, if you were mistaken for a boy–especially since you seem to have a knack for it,” Amelia noted, bending her head to continue reading.

Morgan resisted the urge to eavesdrop. It really was not necessary to read the woman’s mind to know what she was thinking. A girl with no past, and Morgan’s looks, could always establish herself in society as a courtesan with the proper training and references, but that was too obvious. There was a certain amount of anonymity to being a courtesan, but if she had been a spy who posed as a courtesan then that was not the guise she wanted to start a new life in. Alternatively, Morgan would certainly not stand out as a priestess, but Logan had found a different way to reinvent Morgan. A way that was certain to displease his mother, which was evident as Amelia reached the end of the letter, frowning and flushed with anger.

Morgan stood as still as she could, willing herself to become invisible—though not employing her gifts to literally obscure her presence.

Amelia surged from her chair and threw the letter in her hand onto the cushion in disgust. “Is this some kind of joke!?” she grated in restrained fury. She turned toward Morgan and raged on. “Taking you for his wife? And he dares send you to me with no warning, and only this for an explanation!? Where is he! Why isn’t he here to explain himself in person!?”

Morgan opened her mouth but could not respond. Those were the very questions she did not know how to answer. The worst news had yet to be revealed, and Morgan was in a bad enough position having delivered it. Since she expected to bear the brunt of the family’s anger and grief, she needed to distance herself from its disclosure as much as possible.

“What sort of explanation am I supposed to give his betrothed and her family? Do you have any idea how important that arrangement is to the pact between our two families?” Amelia continued to rant. “When they realize that the alliance of our houses has been cast aside in favor of some miserable little concubine, we will be fortunate if they do not declare a feud on us!”

Unable to respond to Amelia’s outrage, but desperate to direct her attention away from herself, Morgan silently encouraged the woman to consider the other messages she had delivered. “There has to be an explanation…” Morgan prompted, using her telepathic gift coercively. “The other letters… from Hannah… from the Court…“

Those projected thoughts had an almost instantaneous effect. Amelia stepped back from the cringing messenger, composed herself, and returned to her chair. “Forgive me. He obviously is not here, and I cannot expect you to answer for him. But, if these other messages can shed no light on this matter, you and I will have a great deal to discuss, Daughter-In-Law.”

Morgan simply bowed her head. To her relief, the woman picked up the letter from Hannah first. She allowed herself a sigh of reprieve. The news in the final message was the worst, and Morgan did not know if the one grain of hope she still held on to could be shared with Logan’s mother. Logan had already warned her not to raise his family’s hopes.

The letter from Hannah was originally addressed to Logan. He had resealed it and forwarded it to his home, giving Morgan only a vague explanation about what it contained. If Morgan had known about the betrothal, she would have demanded more of an explanation. This time, she did not hesitate to probe the older woman’s mind to satisfy her curiosity.

:. Amelia arched an eyebrow at Morgan, curious about the intense stillness that suddenly possessed the young woman. To her experienced eye, the demure pose Morgan unconsciously slipped into was evidence that her son was correct. She had been trained as a courtesan. Making a mental note to examine her thoroughly later, Amelia broke the two seals on Hannah’s letter. Unfolding the pages and smoothing them out, she began to read:

:. Logan,

:. It seems that the time for secrets between us is at an end. You must know now that I have discovered and destroyed your secret project. What you planned to do enraged me beyond reason. You also know that I have seen the young woman you have warming your bed. Taken together, you have given me sufficient reason to break our engagement.

:. While it is my intention to do so, neither your plan nor your involvement with Morgan is truly to blame. I understand enough of your project’s purpose to know it would have been best for me to remain an ignorant accomplice in your experiment. And in all honesty, I cannot object to your liaisons with that courtesan. No doubt she is one of your mother’s pets, a graduation present or some such. I don’t really care. It is enough, however, that you have been keeping secrets from me.

:. As I have been keeping secrets from you.

:. Once, we were very close, you and I. Intimates of the first order. But you were always so brilliant, so driven. Learning became your first passion, eclipsing even your passion for me. The more you devoted yourself to the Art, the harder it became to capture your interest. The time you did give me was splendid, but it was so rare… a banquet once a month is not proof against starvation. Yet, what never seemed enough for me seemed more than sufficient for you. I do not doubt you loved me, but you loved probing and penetrating the mysteries of existence more. It eventually occurred to me that you had not abandoned me, so much as I was not able to accompany you on your greatest adventures.

:. I was lacking, but I was not the only one. There was another who would have flown with you to the gates of heaven and the depths of the abyss, if only he was able. Your friend and mine, Marshal. At first, neither of us sought to betray you. It was just so natural for us to spend our time together, when you never showed up to join us. It was inevitable, I suppose, that our efforts to entertain and amuse each other led to more intimate moments. And intimate moments led to feelings stronger than anything we ever experienced before. In allowing myself to fall in love with Marshal, I have betrayed my family and myself in addition to betraying you. Even worse, it made me realize that I never loved you enough.

:. So, with this, I surrender. I release you from our engagement, and release myself from the burden of keeping my betrayal a secret. I regret only that I am forced to accuse you of betraying me. If I confessed my true feelings to my family, they would simply forbid me to see Marshal again, and force me into marriage with you. I cannot see you desiring that, not after seeing the way you are with Morgan. All I am really asking is that you admit to two things that I believe are true. You did intend to exploit our marriage to further your study of the Art, and you have fallen in love with the girl that now occupies all of your time.

:. It is only necessary that you and I, and our beloved Marshal know that it was I who truly bears the blame.

:. In sincerity, if not in love,

:. Hannah

:. Amelia sighed in agitation. From the dates, and the fact that Hannah’s letter had been referred to in Logan’s, it was clear that the girl’s confession had precipitated her son’s marriage to Morgan. Apparently, Logan had not bothered to correct Hannah’s assumptions about Morgan. He had not bothered to clarify certain details for his mother’s benefit either. She could not even guess what the secret project or experiment that Hannah referred to actually was. That was simply another thing she wished her son were present to explain. .:

Morgan carefully withdrew from Amelia’s mind.

There was only one letter remaining, though from the way Amelia brooded over Hannah’s message Logan’s mother was not in a hurry to read it. Nor did the woman seem inclined to comment on Hannah’s confession.

As the moments passed, a strange urge came over Morgan. Despite her intentions to distance herself from the worst of the news she bore, she was the main witness to the events reported in the official documents from the courts of Aeryn Tear. In fact, she was indirectly the cause of the tragedy that befell Logan and herself on their wedding night. Arguably, the instrument of her husband’s “demise”, and while the court had exonerated her of blame, they had also made his death official, indifferent to her claim that it was still possible to save him.

She had read the transcripts of the investigation and hearings, and her instincts told her that it would be cruel to let Amelia read them unprepared. It would be better to make herself a target for the mother’s fury and grief. Before Amelia could shift her attention to the final message, Morgan slipped forward and placed her hand over the sealed document.

Amelia looked up at her in surprise, concern entering her face as she saw the grim, sorrowful expression Morgan wore. “What is it?”

“Your questions, about why Logan is not here to- to introduce me in person a- and explain his actions–” Morgan tried to explain. She looked down for a moment, bangs falling forward to curtain her face. “I am so sorry. I- I didn’t want to- I didn’t know how to answer.”

Apprehension slipped its crushing grip around Amelia. “No. Please…”

Morgan looked up sadly. She had said nothing, really, but already the mother suspected the truth. “On the night we were wed, as we consummated our union, a terrible thing happened, something that confirms the worst of Logan’s suspicions about my past. Something that might even explain why I was stripped of my past and cast out to die.” Morgan was forced to summon all the resources of her mental discipline as she revisited the traumatic event. If Logan’s letter had not already revealed so much, she might not have been able to confide the following. “There was something inside me, something that I think explains my psychic abilities. A demon. I can only suppose that I was intended to serve as its host. The only memories I have recovered came to me that night.

“As a child, I was sacrificed to this thing, but instead, somehow, I managed to fight back. I trapped it within myself, locked it away, and tried my best to forget about it.” Morgan took a deep breath, reminding herself that she needed to express the conclusions she and Logan had reached together as though she had figured them out herself. “I did not believe Logan’s theory that I was some sort of spy or assassin, but the presence of the demon suggests that I was intended to be something horrible. Is it not said that demons and angels require human hosts to disguise their true natures? It seems reasonable that my masters might have discovered I was not the thing they had tried to create and decided to dispose of me,” Morgan pulled a slim dagger from her belt sheath.

“What is that for?” Amelia asked nervously, caught up in the spell of Morgan’s story.

Instead of answering, Morgan planted the tip of the blade in the center of her left palm and then thrust the blade through her hand. Blood pooled in her hand and ran down the blade protruding out the other side. Morgan slowly withdrew the dagger, then held the wounded extremity up to display the puncture to Amelia. As Morgan resumed speaking, the bleeding visibly stopped and the wound began to close up.

“This is the strongest of my powers. I heal very rapidly,” Morgan confided, sheathing the dagger and swallowing a lump in her throat as she explained, “I think it was provoked by the torture I endured as a sacrifice. If I had to guess, I would say my masters did far worse than dump me naked in the ocean. I think the fact that they erased my mind suggests they were not certain what it would take to kill me. But I don’t doubt that they tried.”

“Because they stole my past, I had no clue that something might be trapped within me. Logan and I had no warning when, on my wedding night, I opened myself entirely to another human being for the first time in my life,” Morgan returned to the main thread of her story. With obvious guilt, she declared, “I unwittingly exposed him to my childhood demon. I was in the throes of passion and did not even notice until my ‘husband’ attempted to kill me.” The shock of suddenly being impaled by a long-sword, literally pinned to her wedding bed, gripped her as the memory flashed back in full detail. The horror of the next few moments, when Morgan was too stunned and confused to defend herself from the demon’s wrath, was indescribable.

The torment evident on her face was the only thing keeping the older woman from interrupting. Instead, she closed her eyes and leaned back heavily, the life seeming to drain out of her.

Morgan wrenched her mind away from the images in her mind, taking note of Amelia’s reaction. The silence was harder to bear than an outburst of anger or disbelief. “Logan was possessed by the demon,” she finally put it in plain words. “People were drawn to my screams and the demon fled, chased to the cliffs where he leapt off. Some witnesses claimed to have seen Logan’s body dashed on the rocks before the waves claimed it. This,” she returned her hand to the last letter, “is the official notice of his death. It claims that the demon originated from some mishap in his training. I am sorry, I could not volunteer the truth to the court. I would have been executed, I am sure, and I could not allow that to happen.”

“Why?” Amelia finally spoke, her tone aggrieved.

Morgan saw the emergence of the disbelief and accusation that she had dreaded, forming into a hatred directed at her. She bowed her head. “I do not believe he is dead. I believe it was within the demon’s power to survive that leap, and I think it is possible to track it down and free Logan from it’s possession,” she declared with fierce conviction.

Amelia regarded Morgan thoughtfully for a few moments, struggling with the emotions unleashed by her tale. Part of her wanted to lash out, to have the girl thrown out in the rain never to be welcomed into her home again. Another part, a smaller part, was intrigued by the determination in her voice as she revealed her belief that there was still hope for her son. It suggested that Morgan did have some feelings for Logan, that maybe in their short time together a real foundation had formed in what was otherwise a marriage of convenience–at least as far as the girl’s needs were concerned. But there was a doubt, and Amelia did not hesitate to challenge, “If you truly believe this, why waste time coming here? Why tell me my son is dead, if there is even a ghost of doubt in your mind?”

Morgan looked up, pausing to consider how much more to confide. Clearing her throat, she announced, “I was arrested that night, and held in prison while an investigation was conducted. After three days, I was brought before the court and cleared of blame by the witnesses’ testimony. It was while I was in prison that I came to believe the demon would not have risked destroying its host after spending ten years trapped inside me. I started to investigate on my own, once I was released. I checked at every harbor on the island, and eventually found a man who claimed that a man fitting Logan’s description came to him seeking passage to Athelon.

“It was also during that first week that I began to have nightmares in which I relived my abduction and sacrifice to the demon,” Morgan interjected. “So, I had a notion of where the demon came from, and where it was going. With Logan’s death, I became a ward of his mentor, who provided for my defense in court and carried out Logan’s arrangements to send me here to you. Taking a chance, I described the place from my nightmares to him one day, hoping he could shed some light on where to seek out the demon’s place of origin. He told me that the descriptions I gave brought to mind the accounts of the handful of men who survived the exploration of Aeslyn Tear.”

“The ruins said to lie under the City of Avon,” Amelia noted, intrigued.

“Yes. That was what he told me. I could have set off directly in pursuit of the demon, but to rescue Logan I would need to know what kind of demon it is and how it is named to be able to bind and banish it. So, I decided to stop here in Avon on my way to Athelon to explore the ruins. It made no sense to come this close to Logan’s home and not pay you a visit.” Morgan sighed and looked away, focusing on a rain spattered window. “There was only a small chance I would arrive before you heard word of Logan’s death, but Logan’s mentor was able to convince the court that, as his widow, I should be entrusted with the official notification.

“But, it was never my intention to impose upon your household,” Morgan pointed out emphatically. “I am here solely to inform you of the tragedy, and assure you I will not rest until I have succeeded in tracking down and banishing the demon. I will only remain in Avon long enough to explore the ruins and gather the information I need to accomplish that mission,” Morgan assured her, gathering herself for her expulsion from the manor.

“I see,” Amelia noted, rising from her seat once more and ringing a small bell to summon the steward. She gave Morgan a strained and stricken look, appearing far closer to her age than before, and prepared to dismiss her. “This is all quite unexpected and overwhelming. I need some time alone to absorb all of this.” The manservant entered the room and straightened to hear his mistress’s request. “Chase, please escort my daughter-in-law to the bath and inform the staff to prepare Logan’s room for her. My daughter should have something suitable for her to wear, please ask her to attend to Morgan and then accompany her to dinner,” she instructed, gesturing for Morgan to accompany the steward. With a casual bow of the head, she concluded, “Now, if you will both excuse me, I am retiring for the night.”

“Come along, then. The bath has been prepared for you,” the elderly servant prompted.

Morgan bowed silently to the Mistress of Redleaf, and followed Chase out of the sitting room. She was faintly stunned to note that she had somehow cleared the first hurdle of her quest.

 

 

Chapter Aside Two

The bath at Redleaf Manor turned out to be the centerpiece of the atrium Morgan had noticed on her way to Amelia’s sitting room. It was a large heated pool clearly designed to project the illusion of a natural, outdoor setting. The thick foliage of a hundred varieties of tropical plants added immensely to the effect, which was almost breathtakingly beautiful. It was the sort of luxury one could only find in a palace, temple or–as the case happened to be–the home of a very successful courtesan. Not surprisingly, such an extravagance was not itself devoted to cleansing the body. Thus, Morgan had been escorted through the slice of paradise into a private washroom, shown the amenities, and then left to her own devices. On her seven day voyage from the Isle of Aeryn, she had been limited to sponge baths in the rare times when she had her cabin to herself, and an occasional cleansing with her psychokinetic abilities. Faced with the prospect of a genuine and proper bath, Morgan did not hesitate to strip out of her borrowed clothes.

The elements of an Initiate’s garb were revealed in turn as she shed them. First, a loose, off-white tunic of fine, close-knit wool that hung down to mid thigh, with long sleeves, accented by the polished leather collar and cuffs. It was cinched in place by a wide, white leather belt matching the collar, cuffs and boots. Her pants were protected by off-white, suede chaps. Under that, she wore a white, cotton shirt tucked into white canvas pants. The mark of a true Initiate was the fact that it took a fairly competent mage or psychic to keep the entire outfit pristine. As she untied the shirt, she revealed a simple bodice she had fashioned from a discarded pair of chaps, which effectively flattened her modest bosom, worn over a silk-suede body stocking. She had just finished peeling herself out of that, and foot stockings of a similar material, when a flicker at the edge of her vision resolved into the figure of a man looming over her.

Stunned at her failure to detect the intruder’s approach, Morgan leapt away in breathless surprise, instinctively putting distance between them.

At the same time, the intruder announced himself. “Morgan, we need to talk.” The unearthly quality of his voice identified him instantly as Logan. Recognition hit Morgan mid-leap, distracting her from her landing as she came down on a slick patch of tile on the opposite side of the washroom. Logan stood open mouthed, words interrupted by her sudden surge of motion, watching as Morgan lost her footing and sprawled gracelessly on her rear.

“Demons!” she swore, gasping with one hand pressed over her heart as Logan roared with laughter. Instinctively, she pulled her knees together, tucking her feet close to her haunches, while shifting her weight to rest on her right hip and thigh. In coordination, she clasped her left arm over her bosom while she braced herself with the other. Not even aware of protecting her modesty, she glared up at the intangible man. “Why do you always pop up when I’m taking a bath!?”

“Why do you always get so excited about it?” Logan teased, eyes riveted to the sight of his wife in such a provocatively demure pose. The glint of fire in her eyes only made her seem more beautiful to him. The ache of what he had gained and lost in one night blossomed into the exquisite agony that served, in his incorporeal existence, as a cry for sustenance. The living, he thought acidly, know nothing of true hunger.

“I’ll give you excited!” Morgan threatened, surging quickly to her feet, catching a bucket full of water in one hand as she did, and flung it’s contents full into Logan’s face. In spite of being a phantom, Logan could not help flinching, closing his eyes in anticipation of the splash. With her other hand, Morgan had snatched up a towel, which she draped across her front while Logan’s eyes were closed. While Logan was noticing, to his chagrin, that the water had passed harmlessly through him, Morgan braced her feet and held up the bucket threateningly. “What does a girl have to do to get some privacy around you?”

“Calm down,” Logan urged hastily, gesturing with both hands for her to lower her weapon. In spite of himself, he was reminded of their “courtship” as he now regarded their first–and only–week of living together. He would never forget the beating he got when she woke up naked in his bed that first night. The physician he had brought had ultimately expended more effort on Logan than he did that night on Morgan. With a sigh, he forced the memories from his mind and started to talk her down. “Now listen, you’re not the only one concerned about privacy here. Which is what a bath generally affords. There are few enough places where it’s safe for you to talk to me, and in this land I should warn you, you can’t always be certain of that.“

“Oh, great,” Morgan moaned, lowering her upraised arm and glancing around herself. “So I can expect someone else to walk in on me too?”

“This is Arden, Morgan,” he noted acerbically, though Morgan had to read him quickly to determine if he was annoyed with her ignorance or the fact that he could never predict what parts of her education remained intact. Of course, reading him was actually a matter of just not blocking out or ignoring the workings of his mind. Her look of incomprehension prompted him to elaborate. “Ardannan’s are notoriously indifferent to nudity. We’re all so fond of swimming, you can walk through the heart of any city stark naked and the first thing anyone is going to say about it is, ‘You forgot your towel’!“

“You’re kidding!” Morgan piped, uncertain whether to laugh or scowl.

“Not at all,” he assured her. While he talked, he watched Morgan collecting bathing implements and supplies, her attention focused on him. “In spite of the fact that we’re on the northern continent, most of Arden is extremely temperate. We get almost nine months of rain, and it’s rarely cold enough for anyone to even need clothes.“

“So, I could have just wandered around naked?” Morgan interjected, settling down on a stool. She had been joking when she told Amelia that was the only alternative she’d had to wearing Logan’s clothes. She smirked softly to herself, not sure if she should be amused or disturbed by the revelation. She had a general knowledge about the world and its various cultures that seemed intact as far as she could tell. Except, knowledge about her native culture seemed to have been wiped from her mind along with the specifics of her past.

“Well. I didn’t say you wouldn’t invite unwanted attention. Human customs do not change human nature,” Logan revised, with a philosophical shrug.

“Ah, so men are still men, then.” Morgan gave him a pointed look as she proceeded to rinse herself down and begin scrubbing. On a deeper level, she was considering the native custom and how it appealed to her. Even beyond what she could remember, it seemed to Morgan that she had never felt entirely comfortable wearing clothing. Her skin was too sensitive for the constant contact, which inevitably became too abrasive or too arousing. It was refreshing to think that she could just pick up a towel and head out the door, and no one would say two words about it. Not only that, but she would most likely never be alone in doing so, if “everyone” was as fond of water sport as Logan claimed. There were some fairly obvious risks, but she did not find them discouraging, confident in her ability to take care of her self, even when perfectly nude.

“More importantly,” Logan added pointedly, interrupting her musing, “not all men in Arden are Ardannan.” He gave her a meaningful look, a not so subtle reminder of previous warnings.

Morgan considered the men she had shared a cabin with on her way to Arden. Morgan had been forced to deflect the taunts and advances of her cabin mates from the first hour of their voyage. Either her “knack for posing as a boy” had not been working that day, or, in the absence of a desirable female, those men considered a “pretty, young boy” an acceptable substitute. Whatever the case, their attentions encouraged the ship’s mate to take Morgan aside. “A man can be well on his way to enjoying your company before you get wind of it,” he had commented, stopping her as she descended to her cabin for the night and edging his way into a warning. “A body asleep don’t argue too much, and don’t take no special courtin’. If he has clever hands he can rouse you out of sleep willing to do just about anything he fancies. If you care to have a say in the matter, keep your pants on–hells, keep your belt and boots on too, ‘cuz naked’s the same as willin’ as far as some sorts are concerned.”

Morgan shuddered, trying not to imagine the consequences of an encounter between her former cabin mates and some unfortunate girl on her way to her favorite swimming hole. It might not have been happening right at that moment, but it could happen at any moment, and certainly had happened in the past. That probably explained why the Port of Avon existed as a separate entity from the City of Avon.

Morgan paused and gestured toward the atrium. “This is sort of the answer to that problem then? At least, if you happen to live in a major city or port. Not so much a private bath, but an open bath in a secure setting. Not only that, a place like this serves to introduce foreigners to our customs.”

“Yes,” her ethereal mate responded, perched on a tall stool from which he had a delightful view of her. He had become so caught up in gazing, he had almost forgotten why he had intruded on her in the first place. “Bathing has always been a social activity in Arden, so the bath is set in the public areas of a household to entertain guests. Washrooms afford a little more privacy, housing wash basins and eliminatories together to ensure all soiled water is diverted to the sewers or leech fields. And speaking of privacy, you might recall I did have a reason for invading yours.“

“All right. Fine,” Morgan agreed in faint exasperation, not particularly eager to hear his reaction to what she confided to his mother. As she returned to scrubbing herself down, she suggested, “Since you’re here, though, you can wash my back while you tell me what you’re so eager to talk about.”

“Temptations, temptations,” Logan sighed, slipping off the stool to kneel behind her. One of the quirks of their strange connection gave him access to her psychokinetic ability, allowing him to influence the world around her as if he was physically present. It added some substance to his presence automatically, allowing him to touch her at any time, and only a little concentration was necessary to pick up an extra brush, lather it with a thick, soapy foam, and massage it into her back. Another quirk, while his phantom body had ways to perceive the physical world, there was nothing exactly equivalent to a sense of touch. Instead, he tuned into Morgan’s perceptions, aware of the sensations she experienced. Thus, in order to feel pleasure, he had to cause her pleasure.

“Logan,” Morgan protested weakly, as he “accidentally” stimulated more and more of her erogenous areas. In the dark days after Logan’s “death” his phantom love making had sufficed more than once to preserve their sanity, but after only two weeks he knew her so well that she only had one chance to protest before she succumbed to his delightful torments.

“We are married,” he reminded her, kissing the side of her neck. His phantasmal arms had slipped around to embrace her from behind, as he pulled her back against his chest. He was torn between the sensations he was awakening in her and the odd interaction between the foamy film of soap between her skin and his psychokinetic presence.

“Weren’t you just saying someone might walk in on me at any moment?” Morgan managed weakly, hating herself for discouraging his attentions, but clinging to the last thread of caution with all the discipline she could muster.

“That would be… awkward,” Logan admitted slowly, ceasing his seductive caresses and simply holding her tight. The ache he had awakened in her was a pleasant companion to the ache that never left him. It was enough to allow him to drink in the pure physicality of her existence, to remind himself what life tasted like. To prevent himself from resuming his caresses, he dumped her out of his lap and stood over her. He took what a mortal might call a deep breath, and trained his mind on what he had wanted to say when he intruded. The frustration of his desire made it easier to recapture the annoyance he had felt over her interview with his mother. “Morgan, what were you thinking? I told you not to raise any hopes.“

“I’m sorry, Logan.” Morgan composed herself once more on the tile basin of the washroom. She took her ejection and his muted anger in stride. It simply confirmed what she had expected from the moment she confided in Amelia. At least their mutual distractions had allowed some corner of her mind time to come up with an analysis of what she had been feeling or thinking when she ignored his request. Looking up at him, she tried to explain herself. “I just couldn’t let her believe that you died such a pointless death. It would have been simpler to lie to her outright and claim you sent me here to be set up as a courtesan.”

“But the news would have eventually caught up to us. You had to tell her about our marriage, and you had to tell her that ‘officially’ I had been declared dead. That was the reason you came here!” Logan insisted passionately.

“No. It was not my idea to come here,” she corrected him firmly. “You wanted me to come stay here while I was in Avon. You wanted your family to accept me. If I had done as you say, she would have cast me out.”

>

“But think about what you said! You told her I was possessed by the demon. If that were actually true, I wouldn’t be here!“

“What’s your point?”

“My point is, the demon stole my body, and there is nothing written or theorized about how to undo that! We still don’t know how I got kicked out of my body and trapped in your mind. The tale you told my mother offers the chance of certain success. If you identify the demon and succeed in tracking it down, there are thousands of priests or clerics capable of binding and banishing it. What we are actually trying to do, however–getting me out of your head and back into my own body–has never been done. I don’t think such a thing has ever even been heard of!“

“I don’t care, Logan. I am going to get you your body back!”

“I am touched by your determination, but… my intentions were to provide you with the support of my family in the event that you can not. Now, if you fail, Mother will despise you. She will denounce you and banish you from this household.“

“If I fail, Logan, I won’t need your family. I’ll be with you.”

“Morgan…“

“So. You are a girl.”

“Amanda?”

“Oh, this is so like you! I should have known…“

“Here, let me wash your back.”

“That’s not necessary…”

“Nonsense. It’s common courtesy, and I hope you will return the favor.”

“I’m sorry, Morgan. You’re on your own.“

“I thought it was common to wash in private.”

“We are in private. Were you or were you not trained as a courtesan?”

“What?”

“Oh, I suppose you don’t remember. Poor thing.”

“Who told you–?”

“I pinched the letters from Mother’s sitting room, kitten. I must say, I just about fell through the floor. So many surprises. It is going to be fun having you around.”

“But- but then you know–“

“Everything, pet. Is it true? Did you have only one night with him?”

“Aren’t you upset?”

“About his death? I suppose you did not have much time to get to know him, Morgan. Logan and I, we are very much alike in some regards. Neither of us could settle for anything at face value. We were always too stubborn and inquisitive to follow convention. You only have to challenge the status quo once to discover how dangerous curiosity can be. I know that the Art was Logan’s passion. He took risks that terrified even his instructors. If you would have asked me before this happened, I would have told you my brother was most likely to die experimenting with magic. I can also tell you, that is the way he would have wanted to go.”

“But still…”

“Hush. I know what you are asking. The thing you are not considering is your loss, Morgan. Mother is no doubt inclined to strangle you, because she is so angry at him. Me, I am proud of what he did. I am glad he slipped free of that worthless cheat. I don’t doubt for a moment that he fell in love with you, and that makes you something special.”

“…”

“In any case, it’s a good thing you came straight to the manor. It is not safe to wander around Avon alone these days.”

“Please, I’m not as helpless as I look, whether I appear to be a boy or a woman.”

“I mean no insult, Morgan. I am very serious. There have been an unusual number of dead bodies turning up lately.”

“I’ve heard it’s not unusual to have three or four murders a day in a large city. What do you mean by an ‘unusual’ number?”

“Well, maybe it would be more correct to say there have been a number of unusual dead bodies turning up, then. Dozens of naked children, most about the age you appeared to be as a boy, some younger, but all ripped limb from limb. Also, often at the same time and place, full grown men and women who seem to have been mauled to death.

 
 
Author’s Note: As you can tell from the last part of this chapter, I completed the dialogue for the chapter and was in the process of blocking out the scenery and actions when I stopped writing. Conceptually, these chapters could be integrated into The Eve of Paradox with a few name changes and some minor modifications to both plots, because that project was developed a year later as a new approach to some of this project’s inspirations. It struck me that there is a story to be told leading up to and and through events referred back to in The seven chapters of The Eve of Paradox. I am in the process of identifying aspects of both stories to adapt to a new effort I am currently developing. As always, feedback from anyone who reads these rough samples would be greatly appreciated.





Book One · The Eve of Paradox

Chapter One
The chatter of rain tapping on the window and marching around on the roof should have been lulling her to sleep. As tired as she was, she kept starting awake. It must have been the wind, screeching and howling through the flailing branches, pounding the shutters and doors open and closed. But this was not her first stormy night at the manor. Once more she closed her eyes and tried to ignore the clamor. Sure enough, they popped open again, fixing on the wall. For a moment she watched the images painted by moonlight and rainwater on the wall across from the window. At last she realized what was keeping her awake.

Voices. Sitting up in bed, she concentrated on the drowned out sound.

“Dawn, go to sleep,” a weary voice complained from the corner. “You’re keeping me awake.”

“Quiet. You go to sleep,” she snapped.

Echoes of conversation were coming from the vent in the floor, she realized. She crawled out of bed, pulling her mother’s shirt tight around her, and crouched down next to the heating vent. The other girl sighed, and sat up to watch. Dawn ignored her and focused on listening. After a moment, the girl flopped back, then burrowed deep under the covers, pulling her pillow over her head. From what she could make out, Dawn figured there must be a gathering going on downstairs. A gabble of words, she could not make out what anyone was saying. Then, in the midst of the confusion, one special voice. Her mother was back! The world spun and danced as she hurtled, with the blind, effortless grace of childhood excitement, from the room. In a flash she was perched on the balcony, watching a gathering of adults greeting each other as more of them came in out of the rain.

She resisted the urge to run to her mother. All that would get her was a warm hug and an escort back to bed. Instead, she peered through the railing that ringed the vaulted hall until the gathering moved deeper into the manor. She crept after them on bare feet, as silent as a shadow. As the adults gathered in the lounge area below, she entered the upper level of the library, flitting through the stacks to another balcony. Her mother, Ember, seemed to be the center of attention. Dawn watched her, not really paying any attention to what was being said. She did not notice when she dozed off, and was startled awake by a sudden commotion. While she blinked and tried to get her bearings the men and women below were jumping to their feet and drawing their swords. The terrible, chilling sound that woke her was instantly familiar, the piercing screams of children.

Dawn had never heard them ring with such terror before.

Note by note, those shrieking cries choked and fell silent, before anyone could reach them. Her mother had leapt across the tables in the lounge, launching herself over the heads of men and women standing between her and the doors. Closed and barred though they were, the doors exploded open under her mother’s glare as she led the charge back to the main hall. Upstairs, Dawn ran after them, stopping only when she crashed into the railing of the grand balcony. Standing there, she could see the soldiers returning from the children’s rooms, blood dripping from their weapons and clothes. They rushed into the hall and took up guard positions against the lords and ladies of their own house. Those nobles looked on in horror, paralyzed by shock, as more soldiers filed into the hall, dragging the bodies of children they had been charged in the utmost to preserve.

While Dawn stared in shock, struggling to comprehend what she was seeing, the garrison started cutting down the stunned nobles, forcing them to defend themselves. Though the nobles moved at once to protect Ember, she charged forward recklessly to strike the traitors down, her eyes darting from one child’s corpse to another, searching for her daughter. From above, Dawn began to scream as grief overcame disbelief. Ember snapped around, eyes drawn instantly to the sight of Dawn running for the stairs towards her slain friends. Ember lurched to intercept her, narrowly avoiding a decapitating stroke.

The nobles closed ranks as Ember ran back toward Dawn. Catching her at the bottom of the stairs, Ember picked her daughter up and hugged her close. In the same motion she whipped back around, her eyes glued to the fight. One of the traitors went down and a cold, dark shadow rippled from his dead form. It rushed across the gap and engulfed one of the lords. The man shuddered, then turned and attacked the lord next to him.

“Demons!” Ember shouted. “They’re possessed by demons!”

This started a retreat into the depths of the mansion. They encountered more soldiers, part of the garrison stationed in the ruins where the manor resided, who blanched in shock when the nobles brandished their weapons at them. After a quick exchange it was determined that these guards had not been relieved. They had remained at their posts out back until drawn by the commotion in the manor. The news that the garrison had been infiltrated by demons made them blanch again.

“They must have been summoned in the barracks, where the men were sleeping,” Ember suggested, after hearing the soldiers’ reports.

“Goddess. How do you fight an enemy who attacks you through your own men?” cried one of the lords.

Another lord, the oldest, glared at him and shook his head, “This must be how our armies were taken at the border. Guard your thoughts, people, and don’t look them in the eye. Killing our men, as much as we are forced to, won’t stop these things. It just drives them in search of new hosts.”

“Now how do we know who is possessed and who isn’t”

“You’re going to have to trust your instincts,” Ember shouted as the fighting surged forward and they became too busy to argue. As opportunity allowed, they called upon the arts they had mastered, fighting back with sorcery as well as swords. Dawn’s flesh started to itch and sing as the presence of magic around her ripped across the surface of her mind. Time started to come unglued, unraveling into a moment of incomprehensible flux. Dawn buried her face in her mother’s bosom as Ember called upon the powers she had mastered, as a priestess of the goddess, to bind and banish the demons as fast as she could. The possessed redoubled their efforts to get to Ember and Dawn with each of her mother’s triumphs. At some point it became clear that new demons were being released into the fray. Whoever had started this massacre was still active, adding fuel to the fire.

One of the lords, a general who had been courting Dawn’s mother, as well as serving as her right hand man, spotted the author of the conflict, striding forth under the protection of his minions. He had the black hair of the merchant class, which marked him equally as a potential assassin or lord of the underworld. For the first time, the nobles of the Phoenix House were able to take the offensive. They concentrated their forces on the demonologist and his ring of protectors, and quickly overwhelmed them. As soon as the man dropped lifeless to the floor, the surviving phoenixes retreated and secured an area for Ember to continue her work. The general stood watch beside her, holding onto Dawn.

She was exhausted, but wide awake with shock. Her eyes stared wide and unseeing until they fixed on a shadow limping toward them from a darkened corridor. There was something wrong about the way he moved, something mesmerizing in his presence. To her mind, raw from the constant abrasion of combative sorcery, he seemed to resonate to a dark, beautifully eerie song. Something inside her told her he was dead. He had been dead for a long time. The song was holding him together, but the music was unraveling. He stared past her, as if intentionally ignoring her.

Ember noticed Dawn’s fixation on the shadows and peered in the direction her daughter was staring. Her gaze fell into the stare the dead man had locked on her during his approach. Her mind was drained by the hours of chanting to the goddess, and weaving sorcerous attacks and defenses. Too late, she realized that the demonologist had been undead, and that he had carried a demon within him. That demon leapt from his mind to hers, crushing the pitiful resistance her exhausted mind tried to erect.

Dawn did not notice as Ember froze behind her, then twitched once in aborted convulsion. Still staring at the thing she was perfectly convinced was a monster, she felt a moment of relief when it suddenly slouched and crumpled. The haunting music she imagined, to interpret the forces that had animated it, faded, and the heavy, pulsing beat that had driven it to destruction was all that remained. Her attention was finally drawn to her mother when Ember stepped up to the general and laid her hand on his arm. Dawn snapped out of her daze when she realized that they were the only three left standing. The hall was littered with the dead and dying and the last assailant lay kicking at the general’s feet.

“It’s over,” her mother said softly, taking the sword from her lover’s hand. He blinked and scanned the room, unable to believe the scope of the devastation. He turned back to Ember in time to see her draw the sword back for a lightening strike. “You never stood a chance,” she sneered, after striking his head from his shoulders. She watched his body topple with a faintly interested expression, then tossed the sword to the side and faced Dawn. “For a moment there, I was almost worried,” she said conversationally.

“You killed him!” Dawn blurted, completely dumbfounded.

“Well of course I killed him. I killed everyone. Didn’t you notice?”

“You loved him!” Dawn argued, gasping for breath and struggling to achieve coherent thought. Shock had pushed her well beyond the limits of sanity, and thought came with great difficulty. It all seemed absurd. Dream like. All of the details she had witnessed, and the snatches of conversation she had overheard started to sort themselves out. Her concentration was taxed by the deep, throbbing beat that now emanated from her mother. Her mind struggled against the obvious.

“I loved him?” her mother frowned. “What a ridiculous notion. I don’t even know him.” Ember bent over and studied her. Straightening and putting her hands on her hips, she announced, “I suspect you don’t understand what just happened here. I think that must be funny. I’ll have to mention it to the master. I am sure he can tell me.”

Dawn recoiled, struck by a sudden comprehension. “You’re a demon.”

“Correct.” The demon sighed and examined Ember’s hands, “This is a nice vessel. I wonder if the master will let me keep it.” Without warning, the demon reached out and caught Dawn by the arm, just as she was about to dart away. “Hold on. You said this is your mother’s body. That makes you the offshoot. If what they say about you is true, I should examine you before I kill you. No point wasting a spare body, if it comes as part of the package, right?” At the words “spare body” Dawn gasped and clenched her eyes shut. The only advice she had heard about fighting demons had been not to look them in the eye. She intended to follow it. “Smart. But not effective. I only need eye contact to take you in the heat of combat. Since I don’t even need to possess you for this…”

Dawn screamed as something cut into her mind and disrupted her thoughts. There was nothing surreal about this brutal invasion of her psyche. It entered her like a white hot nail driven directly through her skull. Her thoughts and feelings twisted away from this searing intrusion, baring layers of information she did not even know existed within her. A second nail followed the first. Then a third, in time with the menacing pulse that emanated from her mother. The first nail withdrew, having drunk its fill of secrets, as the fourth punched into her. The horrible, alien presence thrust mercilessly into the folds of her mind. A terrible cadence that promised never to stop, probing deeper and deeper, while Dawn writhed in her mother’s grip.

“Well! This is interesting,” the demon chirped, as the rhythm paused.

One of the lances in her mind twisted, and something like a flash of lightening arced across her nerves. Dawn’s eyes snapped open, burning with a terrified and dangerous light. “Get out!” she growled suddenly, as something powerful flooded through her. “GetoutgetoutgetOUT!” Her thoughts coiled and then ignited with a passion that made her tremble. The air around her stirred, pulling at the garments of the slain and whipping their hair as it picked up force. The hairs on Ember’s arms suddenly stood on end, as the atmosphere around her thinned and became hard to breathe. A strange rupture seemed to be forming around Ember’s body, as if she stood at the mouth of an abyss. Unable to push the demon out of her mind, it seemed Dawn was somehow warping space trying to push it out of her world.

“This is very interesting,” it added, with growing excitement.

The breeze turned into a wind, as the aperture continued to open, and the demon narrowed Ember’s eyes against it. The demon ignored the blast, as air rushed to fill the peculiar void engulfing Ember, exerting enough effort to anchor her vessel in normal space while concentrating on what it had found in Dawn’s mind. Among the wounded, heads turned to observe, commanded by demons curious to see what was happening. Distracted from their efforts to repair the bodies they had stolen, they began to pick themselves up and shamble over toward Ember and Dawn.

Dawn stared at Ember in growing fury. With each twist and perversion of that alien presence in her mind, she became more desperate. Her consciousness recoiled from every thrust, retreating deeper and deeper into her own mind. As she descended, she tripped over and grasped at the threads of her potential. Whatever her psyche could provide as a weapon, she tried to turn against her assailant. Most of it danced past the demon’s invading consciousness, spiraling out to feed the fury that engulfed Dawn. Dust and debris lifted from ground, to become deadly shrapnel in the growing tempest.

The possessed surrounding them suddenly sensed the threat to their leader, and stumbled forward to disrupt this unholy communion. The leader, finally grasping the kind of power the child was tapping into, launched a direct attack, hoping to shut her down. Dawn wailed in agony, curling into a tight ball in her mind. A thousand times worse than the pain of the probing, Dawn reeled, losing touch with reality for a moment. She balled herself up even tighter, pulling in everything she had been throwing out. The tempest suddenly died as Dawn collected herself. Thinking itself on the verge of success, the demon in Ember focused everything into one last attack. The ball of untamed potential suddenly compressed to a point as Dawn recognized the possibility of her death, and welcomed it.

In the moment of clarity, Dawn noticed the possessed all around her, hands and arms cruelly locked around her and Ember as they tried to pull them apart. She refocused her eyes on Ember’s face. The humanity that made it her mother’s was gone. All that remained was the monster who took her mother’s place. “Go away,” she said. An irresistible force seized Ember’s body and flung it away from Dawn. Ember was ripped out of the clutches of the those around her, and smashed through the wall at the far end of the hall.

Once Ember was out of her sight, Dawn turned to look at the possessed clinging to her. It did not occur to her that they had tried to separate Ember and Dawn, or that they inhabited the bodies of people she knew. All Dawn could see was that they hurt her. She decided to hurt them back. Holding nothing in reserve, she lashed out at them with the only thing she had. Her mind. The delicate patterns of art and nature she had interpreted as music now appeared as tangible and clear to her as crystal. In each entity rang a single note that kept the whole design tuned and coherent. It was simplicity itself to reach out, silence that key note, and watch as the pattern shattered and unraveled. The physical consequence was shocking. Her enemies fell, quite literally, apart. Dismembered by the dissonance in the forces that defined them.

With calm, cool deliberation, Dawn struck them down in turn. The demon, forcing Ember’s body to rise from the rubble, paused at the sight. It watched this awesome demonstration of destructive potential with fascination. Impressed, but conscious of its own peril, it shifted its attention from what Dawn was doing to the girl herself. The damage Ember’s body had sustained, smashing through a stone wall, was sufficient to ensure that it could no longer serve as a vessel. There was no reason to be destroyed along with it. Since it had already established contact with the child’s mind, it simply had to flow from one vessel to the next. Dawn could sense this, as the demon’s thoughts spilled through that connection, and waited. Death being much preferable to possession, she was already studying her own key note.

The demon forced Ember’s body to its feet. “Take a good look at your future, child.” The demon smiled. “I have already won.” The demon closed the distance on trembling legs, grinning as she coughed up blood from ruptured organs. “Strong bones, but weak guts. I’ll have to remember that. It probably runs in the family.”

With each step, Ember was racing toward death. Some small corner of Dawn’s mind rejoiced that she would not have to destroy her mother to force the demon’s hand. Only herself. Their eyes remained locked as the demon advanced.

A few steps away from Dawn, Ember’s legs gave out, her body falling to its knees. “Tell me something,” the demon began, panting for breath. Dawn, paying more attention to the demon’s presence in her mind than in her mother, was not really listening. “All of these people,” she coughed up another gout of blood, and struggled to fill her lungs. “All of these people… died… to protect… you. And you…” the demon choked a laugh, “plan to destroy your self.” It forced Ember’s body to crawl forward. For a while, it could not make Ember speak. When it reached Dawn, it looked up, gasping, and forced the question out, “Is that funny?”

The light was fading in Ember’s eyes, and tears streamed silently down her face. Similar tears blurred Dawn’s vision, but her attention was on the presence that was rushing in on her mind. Poised to self destruct, her instincts screamed that timing was absolutely critical. The demon poured into her, and Dawn reached to snuff out her own light. To her astonishment, the presence, washing over her like a shadow, twisted through a corner of her mind and vanished. Before reflex could cause her to suicide, a voice rang in her mind, so loud it was nearly audible.

No!

Dawn went rigid. “What was that?” she gasped aloud, eyes searching.

Sleep.

“Who is…” She slumped to the ground unconscious.

Dawn lurched forward, sheets flying as she exploded into consciousness. Her heart hammered in her chest and sweat soaked her hair and shirt to her body. Her eyes darted wildly in the darkness, into which the horrible images of slaughter quickly faded. For a moment, she feared the darkness, filled with the horrible conviction that her vision had been obscured by possession. Her hands flew up to cover her face, and found it wet with tears. In the dim light from the porthole she could see these were not the hands of a child, elongated and calloused by adolescence and training. The child, she remembered finally, had been left in the past.

Her trauma, of course, had not.

Dawn took long deep breaths to stop her gasping and slow her heart. Her blood sang with adrenaline, pumped out to fight her nightmare, so there was no chance of going back to sleep. Gentle snoring from the bunk across from hers warned her that her mentor was still deep asleep.

In the dark, she searched with nimble hands for her breeches, and slipped them on. She glided away from the bed, collecting her cloak and boots from beside the door and slipped out of the cabin she shared with her mentor, careful not to wake her. A lantern burned at the foot of the hatch at the far end of the upper hold, lighting the way. She stepped carefully between crates and pallets as she headed forward to the ladder.

Scaling the ladder, she emerged from the hatch on the main deck, just aft of the forecastle and midway to the main mast. She turned toward the bow and climbed the port ladder to the forward deck. She carefully dodged crew men as they darted amongst the rigging, and made her way to the prow. As she settled into her familiar perch, she was grateful that this was the last night of their voyage. It was frustrating having nowhere to walk and clear her head. The captain had chewed her out for pacing the deck every night, and banished her to the prow with firm instructions on when she could be where. The simple version was, never in the crew’s way. Desperate for something to occupy herself with, she had offered to help the crew, but the captain had threatened to clap her in irons if she mentioned it again.

As she settled down, she wondered about her nightmare. It was unusual for being the most accurate recapitulation of the Dream Gate Massacre she had ever had. It was as if, after a decade of elaboration, the most frightening permutation her mind could come up with was the truth. She was half tempted to write it down while it was fresh in her mind. All her life people had asked her to explain what had happened that night. The first year, her mind had refused to consciously acknowledge that it had happened at all, and by the time she could bring herself to talk about it, her dreams had made the truth very hard to recall. Eventually, the event had been reported fully by the investigators, after painful reconstruction.

She shook her head and tried to think about something else.

That was pretty hard, given where the ship was headed. Her mentor was taking her to Dream Gate. All of the initiates in her class were assembling there for the trials which would complete their training. There was no point in arguing against it, so she had not. She had simply bit her lip and prayed for dreamless sleep. As long as nightmares were put into a separate category, her prayers had been answered.

Dawn sighed and climbed over the railing. Just forward of the prow, she could straddle the bow spirit, or sit in the catch net, and remain for the most part out from underfoot. She composed her mind and began to meditate. It would keep her thoughts from straying into dark corners and compensate a bit for lost sleep. She quickly fell into a light trance in which the sun rose and the Phoenix Coast sailed into view. The bucking of the ship as it cut through the waves kept her from sinking into a heavier trance. She remained cradled in the catch net as the ship pulled into the harbor at Dream Gate. As the ship sailed into port, she made her way back down to her cabin in the upper hold, to inform her mentor they had arrived.

Her mentor took one look at her, half drenched from the ship’s jousting with the ocean, and sighed. She filled the basin and ordered Dawn to wash, while she rifled through the girl’s pack for something halfway presentable. She laid out some clothing and collected Dawn’s soaked and salt-crusted shirt and breeches with their laundry before heading up to the deck. Dawn did the best she could with a soaked rag and dutiful scrubbing, but it was no substitute for a bath. Once she was dressed, and her pack reassembled, she joined her mentor above.

She found Amber at the railing, drinking in the sight of the city. It lay in a broad valley that sloped down between the coastal cliffs to either side. The dawn light turned the faces of the flanking cliffs into wings of fire. Wood trimmed and whitewashed stone buildings climbed the valley walls, becoming finer and more impressive in their architecture as they neared the tops of the cliffs and ridges. Tree lines streets and courtyards spread a canopy of green between buildings, nursing blue shadows in the white walled depths. The grand columns of the sanctuary at the head of the valley were imitated throughout the city, making it all seem part of the temple of the Goddess. Her birth place.

While they were gazing at the city, the ship pulled into port and docked.

It was ironic. For half of her childhood, this had been the place she thought of as home. It was true that most of that time she had been away, but it had been the one place she always returned to. Of course, that was her life as a boy. As a girl, she had known only the sanctuary and the mansion in the ruins outside of the city. She had left when she was seven to begin her initiation and had not been back since. No one who saw her now would recognize her. She was a stranger. It was better that way. The past year had taught her that. What had happened to her as a child, the consequences of which she had spent the past year overcoming, was too much to explain to anyone. It was certainly not something she wished to show anyone. Since people were unlikely to believe it without seeing it, she was better off letting go of those old friendships.

It still made her feel weird though.

She knew this place, the people in it, so well. She could close her eyes and walk from the port up to the ruins. Not that she would ever want to. It was bad enough that she was back here because she had to visit the ruins. It had been a great place for a boy to run around with his friends, exploring. For her, it was a monument to the most tragic and horrifying experience of her life. Now, it was the final obstacle to overcome in her initiation.

Another familiar face walked by.

“This must be very strange for you,” her mentor commented.

“You have no idea, Amber,” she laughed. She shifted the weight of her pack and glanced at her companion. “I never really thought about how many people I knew here. I get the urge to run up to some of them and catch up on what I’ve missed, and then I remember.” She remained silent for a while, before muttering, “You’d think I’d be used to feeling strange by now.”

“You just weren’t prepared for it. I know you’re in an awkward position, but if you give it time you can do something about it. There’s more than one way to get reacquainted. Or more accurately, get acquainted for the first time.”

“If I survive the trials.”

“Dawn,” her mentor stopped and faced her, “You’re not a child anymore. Even as a child you managed to survive worse. The training you have now is more than sufficient for the trials. I didn’t spend ten years of my life training you to send you to your death right at the end. Try to have a little more confidence in yourself.”

Dawn sighed and shook her head. “I am sorry. I know. It’s just… the nightmares keep getting worse.”

Amber placed her hands on Dawn’s shoulders and leaned close to touch foreheads with her protégé. “Why didn’t you tell me?”

“You mean you really didn’t notice that I practically wet myself at the thought of going to bed?” She smiled, after getting a grin out of her mentor. She gave a small shrug with her hands, her shoulders being a bit encumbered, and tried to explain. “I’ve always had the nightmares. I’ve sort of gotten used to them. After a while you learn not to wake up screaming. Panting and sweating like a race horse, yes, but you keep it from boiling out. I meant to say something about it earlier, then you told me about the trials. I couldn’t bring it up after that. I was afraid you would think I was just trying to get out of them.”

This time Amber sighed and shook her head. She straightened and shook Dawn firmly. “Foolish girl. I would never suspect you of cowardice, except when it comes to what people think of you. Your nightmares are the scars of a great trauma. As you know, trauma scars, physical or otherwise, are dangerous weaknesses in combat. They need to be identified, repaired if possible, or compensated for through training. If you had told me about it, we could have done something. I don’t know if we have time now.”

“Wait. You’re not saying I have to withdraw from the trials, are you?”

The note of alarm in Dawn’s voice made Amber pause.

“Amber! You know what will happen if I don’t pass the trials!”

“I know.” The older woman hung her head thoughtfully. “I don’t know. I am not the one qualified to decide. You need to be examined by your master. I would hate to see you forfeit your initiation at this stage.” She resumed walking with more determination. “Don’t mention this to anyone else. The last thing you need is for word to get back to your regent. She can see to it that your examination takes long enough for you to miss the trials completely.”

“I understand.”

The couple walked in silence all the way to the hostel where they would stay through the trials. After checking in and getting their room, Amber left Dawn to settle their gear while she sought out the master. Once she was done, Dawn was free to roam the grounds and catch up with her classmates. She thought she was the first of her group to arrive, when a quick tour of the grounds turned up no familiar faces. There were a few initiates present with other schools, but no one she had met. Finally, one of them approached her. Not surprisingly, this stranger knew her. She was famous, after all. Part of that was due to being the sole survivor of the Dream Gate Massacre, but most of it was due to the fact that their masters always pointed her out as a role model. Instead of answering his questions about the ruins, and what it was like to face a demon, she interrupted him to ask if any of her classmates had arrived. He asked around and came back to tell her that a group of students had gone down to the nearby inn, and that Dusk was among them.

That was welcome news.

Dawn had not seen Dusk for a few months. She left a message for her mentor, explaining where she went and ran down to the inn. It would be wonderful to see him again. A great deal had changed since the last time they met. Most importantly, she had resolved the problem that had stood between them for the last year. She was smiling and humming to herself as she reached the inn and slowed her pace. She took a moment to compose herself and slow her breathing. She was excited to see him again, but she did not want him to know that. At least not until she saw his reaction to seeing her.

She focused her mind and invisible fingers combed through her hair or smoothed and straightened her clothes. She checked her appearance through the eyes of a couple pedestrians passing by, and then stepped through the open door into the inn. As her eyes adjusted to the cool, dim interior, she sought out the host. Spotting him she approached to order a simple meal of bread, fruit and cheese to break her fast, with iced tea sweetened by local honey. Watching as her order was filled, she fished a few coins from her purse and laid them on the counter. She took her plate and cup, heading toward a corner table.

Her path took her past the table where the initiates from the hostel were seated, and too absorbed in their own conversation to have noticed her entrance. As she approached, she was able to pick their voices out from the confusion of table talk surrounding them and make out the topic of their discussion. She almost turned on her heel and walked out. Unfortunately, before she could, she was spotted by one of her classmates who broke off and waved her over to the table. She sighed under her breath and plastered a smile on her face as she reached the table and settled into the spot they vacated for her on the nearest bench.

“We were wondering when you would arrive, Dawn.” The initiate who waved her over quickly introduced her to the students she didn’t know, and she greeted the rest in her normal fashion, a nod and a smile. To her disappointment, Dusk, who had remained silent, jerked his head up a notch in greeting and returned, impatiently, to the argument she had interrupted.

“No,” Dusk said, turning back to the person he had been addressing, “Demons aren’t the real threat. That’s not the point. Swords kill people all the time, and whenever some idiot starts crying that all swords should be destroyed, everyone laughs at them. The point is that demons, like swords, are dangerous weapons that spend most of their time safely sheathed and bound. The only time a sword is a threat is when it is brought out and pointed a someone. People who ignore it get killed. What you don’t seem to understand is, the instant a demon manifests in this world, it is a drawn weapon in the hands of a dangerous enemy.”

“But,” the boy retorted, “You were just talking about how demons are part of the natural order, like lions and dragons. We hunt those when necessary, but we don’t talk about wiping them from the face of creation.”

“Oh, be honest. You just don’t want to be the one who has to deal with them. You want to be a proud noble warrior and leave the dirty work of killing these monsters to crazy people like me who just want to wipe them out. Wake up,” Dusk growled. “Demons are part of the natural order, but they are not living things, like lions and dragons. Crystal said that and she’s wrong. Demons, such as we are here to hunt, are deadly weapons that feed on life for power. The people who wield those weapons are the real threat, but unless we destroy the weapons they wield, deny them that power, we can never draw them out where we can deal with them directly.”

“I can’t argue with that,” another boy said. “The thing I can’t believe is that you intend to devote your entire career to this. Worse, you’re trying to get us to do the same!” He shook his head. “There are hundreds, thousands, of threats that are equally dangerous. What about the undead? In terms of capability and threat, they are the equals of demons. Should we ignore them to focus on your demons?”

“Why are we arguing about this,” Crystal demanded. “We should just follow our training. To protect our communities, to respond to the threats that appear, whatever they may be, and pass on the legacies of our birth and training. Where do you get off trying to start a crusade, Dusk?”

Dawn found herself looking between Dusk and Crystal. She frowned. She had known Dusk for most of her life. Though they had separate mentors, they trained under the same instructors, all under one master, and at one point had even been betrothed to each other. Like her, his training had focused on answering the threats of the damned arcane arts, but he had never shown a particular interest in hunting demons. “Where did you even get the idea?” she asked, settling her gaze on Dusk.

Dusk stared at her a moment, then scanned the crowd before throwing up his hands. By chance, he stopped eye to eye with Dawn. “This is impossible. None of you understand how dangerous demons really are.” He failed to notice as Dawn’s face paled and her right eye began to twitch. “That’s fine. We’ll see what you all think after the trials. Months from now, when you wake up every night, from nightmares about demons, maybe you’ll think about what I said. You will hear reports of a demon haunting a town on the other side of the continent and kill your horse trying to reach it and kill it before its influence can spread.”

Dawn had risen to her feet, her breath suddenly coming hot and heavy. Dusk looked up into her withering glare in shock. “You arrogant, stupid…! How dare you say that to me!?”





Book One · The Eve of Paradox

Chapter Two

Dusk stared at Dawn for a moment, confused. His face went blank, as he searched through his memory to find an explanation for her sudden fury. This was far from the first time he had tripped on a detail he should have known. The product of living life too fast, he warned himself. Dawn remained on her feet fuming. As he reacquainted himself with precisely who she was, and what sort of history they had, he felt an urge to bang his head on the table. Finally he shook himself out of his daze. “I am sorry, Dawn. I didn’t mean… I just… It slipped my mind. I was addressing the whole group. I wasn’t thinking about what I was saying,” he apologized, his face wrenched between shock, horror, embarrassment and pity. “Or, what you had said. You asked a legitimate question. My fault for treating it as skepticism.”

Dawn looked down for a moment. She took a deep breath and returned to her seat, studying Dusk. He still had not answered her first question, but she could guess what it was not. His strange obsession no longer struck her as a touch romantic, inspired by his compassion for her trauma. “So, what you mean is, this whole crusade isn’t for me?”

Dusk considered the question and sighed. “Honestly, no.”

Dawn suppressed a sigh and looked away.

One of his companions leaned over and whispered. “Way to go. Idiot.”

Dusk pushed him away and studied Dawn silently while the conversation moved on to new topics. It occurred to him, now that he had reviewed his history, that he would need her. He reached out and touched her hand. She turned to look at him, anger still seething behind her eyes. “Look. I am sorry,” he said, pausing as eyes turned to them. “Maybe we should step outside. I need to explain myself, and this bunch of jokers will probably mess it up. Please?”

She looked ready to say no, or at least kick him in the shin.

“If you really want to beat me up, we should definitely step outside.” He grinned, and a moment later she relaxed. With a nod, she stood up, slipping her hand from under his as carefully as one might back out of a dragon’s lair. He clambered to his feet, warned his companions not to follow, and led the way out of the inn. They continued up the street a bit until they found some shade and a bench under a tree. Neither of them felt like sitting down. “I know I acted like I completely forgot you existed,” he began.

“Again,” she interrupted.

“Again. I imagine this will be a hell of a beating.” He shrugged. “I know it’s been a couple of months, and I know things got a little… odd… between us. But I didn’t forget you. I just got absorbed in something else.”

“Dusk. You don’t have to explain.” She crossed her arms and turned slightly away from him. “You’re the only person I know who can get lost in a closet. You walk around in a daze, and the world only becomes real to you when you are solving some problem or fighting some battle. Maybe it’s because you’re so gifted, I don’t really know. I forgive you and I forgive you, and in the long run I am not doing you any favors. You keep wandering through life like it’s some sort of game, and one of these days it’s going to get you killed. Why should I go on encouraging it?”

“Dawn,” he stopped. What she just said sent a cold chill through him. Made him think. He shook it off and tried to focus on his excuse. “You’re right. I can’t argue with any of that, but there is more to it. A few months ago I learned some things about demon nature that were very disturbing. By themselves they are completely harmless. In fact they are necessary, but the arcane arts use them, pervert them, to pervert the natural order. They have abilities no mortal in this world possesses, and which no mortal should have access to. You know how deadly they can be, but, I am sorry, you don’t really know how dangerous they can be. There is no way you could know.”

“If I can’t possibly know this, how is that you can?”

It was a good point. Technically she had the same training he had. Arguably, he couldn’t know as much as she did. Of the three initiates in the past five hundred years, including himself, who received instruction directly under the Magus, she had been the other two. Better not to think about that. “I don’t know if I can explain it. All I can say is I was in a unique position to learn it and there is no question in my mind that everything I know about it is true. The point is, I got so absorbed in it that it overwhelmed everything else.”

Dawn considered that for a moment in silence. “Maybe you should tell me something about what you learned then, if it’s that important.”

“It is. There are some things I can’t explain, because they would not make any sense to you, but what I can say is, if the demon threat is not eliminated, this entire world could cease to exist.”

“How can that be possible?”

“That’s the part I would have a hard time explaining. Let me just say that there are powers that protect and nurture this world, and there are powers that are completely indifferent to it. If the nature of this world is exploited in a way that threatens the security of those other powers, this entire world can be wiped out with a single command and the powers that protect this world would be helpless to prevent it.”

“What are you talking about? The old gods?”

“Dawn, the old gods were toddlers compared to the powers I am talking about. The only reason this world still exists is because it is beneath their notice.” Dusk could not help glancing around to make sure no one was in ear shot. “I can not convince anyone of this, and I won’t try. What I can do is point out the obvious threat, and encourage people to deal with it.”

“No kidding. I am not sure I believe it, but, setting that aside, how? How are we supposed to eliminate the threat of demons. They’ve been loosed on this world over thousands of years, ever since the Cataclysm. I doubt anyone even knows how many have been unleashed.”

“That’s what I need to make people start thinking about. The question is, will you be one of them?”

“I will need to think about it. I am still wondering what will happen the next time I confront one.”

Dusk sensed that there was more of a confession in that than she had been comfortable making. She looked uneasy and pale. “Fine. You think about it. I won’t mention it again until you have an answer.” He reached out and offered his hand. “In the mean time, let’s sit down, chat with our peers, and bolster our courage for the trials ahead.” Dawn took his hand and let him lead her back to the inn. As they approached the entrance, some of the initiates were coming out. Most of them were from the group he had recruited, but one was a stranger. His friends were giving the stranger directions, when they looked up and spotted Dusk and Dawn.

They pointed at Dusk and approached as a group.

Dusk stopped, Dawn at his side, as the man stepped forward to present a letter. “What’s this?” he asked, holding out his hand and studying the stranger.

“Message for The Dragon. These boys say that is you.”

Dusk examined the seal and said, without looking away, “Dawn, go on in. I’ll join you as soon as I take care of this. If I can.” Dawn opened her mouth to question, and he added. “If you want time to make up your mind, you had best not get involved in this. I am sorry.” Dawn studied the messenger, and the rest of Dusk’s companions before nodding and excusing herself. Dusk waited until she was out of earshot then broke the seal and read the message. After he had memorized the contents he tossed the parchment aside. As it burst into flames and settled to the ground in ashes, he looked at the messenger and asked, “You’re supposed to lead me to this informant?”

“That is correct.”

“Did he say why we need to meet on the Threshold?”

“I believe he said it was a security precaution.”

This reply disturbed Dusk. A few of his friends turned to each other, muttering in disbelief. “Quiet. All of you.” They stared at him, but fell silent. “Martin. You and Quail go to the hostel and find my mentor. Tell him I was called away on house business. Cougar, go inside and give Dawn my apologies for leaving. Then join the rest of us at the Sanctuary. You have ten minutes before we depart from there.” Those three bowed and departed. He returned his attention to the messenger. “We’ll escort you to the Annex. Once we’re on the Threshold you can take the lead. The message did not say anything about an escort, so if you don’t mind, my friends will be coming along. Just in case.”

“As you wish.” The man bowed and gestured, “Shall we go?”

“Follow me,” Dusk took the lead, flanked by his remaining companions and trailed by the messenger. They proceeded in this fashion through the city, following the winding road as it scaled the terraced valley. Cougar caught up to them as they were entering the Sanctuary. Dusk waved him over and bent close to ask, “How did she take it?” If at all possible he wanted to avoid offending his best asset twice in one morning.

“She rolled her eyes and muttered, but that was all.”

Dusk sighed and led the group into the temple. They turned from the main hall down a corridor, past meditation chambers and classrooms. The temple was many buildings, and gardens, united under a common roof. They followed a route common for those interested in touring the gardens at a pace which disguised their haste. Dusk, the most familiar with the Sanctuary, played the role of guide, as he pointed out and commented on various features and their history for the stranger among them. They exited the gardens through the dormitory wing, housing for transients and petitioners, met Martin and Quail, and continued through a door at the end of a side passage. They found themselves in a gallery no one ever seemed to visit. Dusk checked the room and headed to a curtained alcove. He walked into the curtain and vanished.

The others followed suit.

Dawn leaned against the wall, her mind open to pick up the presence of other minds. Following Cougar had been simplicity itself. Once again, while hardly proud to admit it, her unofficial apprenticeship in cat burglary had paid off. Of course few second story man had the advantage of senses trained as hers were. Combined, they had allowed her to pursue Dusk closely and remain undetected. Unfortunately, he had some tricks up his sleeve too. One by one, the minds she was tracking had blinked out of existence. She did not believe they had all just jumped off the face of creation, and it was equally unlikely they just dropped dead without a peep of distress.

She itched to find out what had happened, but did not want to rush into the room and find them all conspiring together, under some cloak of psychic invisibility. She had to approach with caution. Since she had witnessed the obfuscation, she did her best to replicate it. Pulling in her thoughts and emotions, willing herself to total inner silence, she struggled to make her presence non-existent. Like a ghost, she crept around the corner and along the passage to the last door. If she had not sensed the group of people walking through it, she might have overlooked it. The door, like her, seemed to be doing its best at pretending to not be there. She glared at it as if to say, “Yes you are!” while struggling not to think it.

Or laugh.

Remarkably, her insistence seemed to convince it, and she no longer had to concentrate on it to make it appear. Carefully, she released the catch and cracked the door. Peering, bobbing to the left and right to scan the room through the hairline opening, she confirmed that there was no one in there. Easing the door wide, grateful of well oiled hinges, she floated into the room. From what she could make out, it was a historical gallery, featuring mostly paintings and small artifacts on pedestals. The only other exit seemed to be an alcove at the back. She drifted down to it and pulled the curtain back. It concealed a small alcove where two people, if they were very intimate, might sit together.

She stood back, allowing the curtain to fall and her mind relax. She had not been joking when she said Dusk could get lost in a closet, but she doubted even he could lose a whole group of people in there. She would have turned and started a search of the other rooms she had passed if she had not noticed a peculiar sensation from her hand. It tingled from contact with the curtain. With much trepidation, she reached out to touch the cloth again. For a second nothing happened, then her hand started tingling again and she realized it had passed, somehow, into the fabric. She straightened her arm, and it sank through the material up to her elbow, as though she had stuck her arm into a water fall.

“What the rotting wreck!?” she pulled her hand back.

Apart from the tingling, there seemed to be no damage or disruption. She stared at the curtain warily for a moment, then walked over to a pedestal. Carefully removing the artifact, some sort of helmet, she picked the pedestal up and brought it over to the curtain. Holding it like a battering ram she advanced. The curtain buckled like any normal cloth would, but nothing else happened. She stretched a hand to touch the fabric, and a moment later the cloth flowed around the pedestal, until it hung as normal. Finally, she focused her mind on the impossible object. The pedestal dropped from her numb hands and she reeled back. Instead of detecting fibers woven into threads, her mind had touched an artifact of pure art, the likes of which she had only sensed once. During one of her sessions with the Magus, he had produced an artifact from the age of gods to illustrate the nature of the first embodiment of magic.

Dawn stared at the curtain and realized that it was in fact a camouflaged portal. In theory, none had survived the Cataclysm, and most had been disrupted before that, during the war against the gods.

Suddenly, she was completely convinced about Dusk’s claims. His unerring and cautious route directly to this portal advertised how familiar he was with it, and lent substance to his claim of having learned things pertaining to the affairs of gods, and even creation itself. She was torn between revealing this discovery to the Magus and finding out precisely what Dusk knew about the greater threat to reality. Ultimately, her curiosity forced her to grit her teeth and step into the portal.

For a moment, her vision danced and her flesh itched from the passage, then she recovered her senses and looked around. She found herself in a strange, tall chamber similar to the gallery she had just left. The walls and floor appeared to be made out of glass filled with churning clouds. The vaulted ceiling was obscured by a haze of light. Around her were free-floating portraits depicting various human attributes clearly identified by inscribed placards that hovered beside them. At first she could not make out the inscriptions, but as she looked the script blurred and reformed in standard academic text.

“Language module confirmed,” announced a booming voice.

Dawn whipped around and stared. “Who is that?”

“Help mode activated.”

“Greetings, and welcome to the Annex.” Dawn twisted back, homing in on the second voice, and jumped at the sight of a man who had not been there an instant before. “How can I be of assistance, Dawn?”

“Who are you? Where did you come from?” she babbled, taking a few steps back. “How do you know my name?”

“I am the Annex Guide. This is where I reside. Ergo, I came from nowhere because I am always here.” The strange man smiled and continued, “Your profile is registered in the Avatar Codex: Phoenix Dawn, Initiate of the Tenth Rank, Heir to the Phoenix House and Legacy, and Chosen of the Goddess.”

Dawn stared at him. With an effort, she collected her wits. She ran the exchange through her mind a couple of times, until the information made sense. Questions formed faster than she could follow them, but she reminded herself what brought her here, and that every second she delayed she came closer to losing Dusk’s trail. Studying the guide she ventured to ask, “You’re here to answer questions?”

“That is correct. What do you wish to know?”

“I am looking for someone. His name is Dusk. Dragon House. Can you tell me where he went?”

“Dusk has transferred from the Annex to the Threshold.”

“How do I follow him?”

“Threshold access is at the far end of the Annex.”

“Thank you,” Dawn bowed and ran to the end of the chamber. The chamber opened onto a balcony that seemed to hang out into an abyss. She swallowed and looked around. The only thing on the balcony besides herself was a large device unlike any coat of arms she had ever seen. On a hunch, she concluded that it was some kind of artifact, like the portal. Frowning, she looked back at the guide. “How does this thing work?”

“With your interface online, use your sprite to access the node. Select ‘Exit’ from the menu and confirm execution.”

“Enter face on line? Sprite?” she repeated, puzzled by the unusual terms.

“Interface online. Sprite activated,” the thunderous voice announced.

“Goddess,” Dawn winced, then flinched as she noticed a bird of flames circling lazily around her head. As she reflexively waved it away, the bird veered off in a wider circuit. When she waved at it some more, nothing happened, but when she looked at the guide to ask a question, the bird darted over and began circling him. At the same time, a halo of flames appeared around him. “What is going on?”

“You have selected me with your sprite,” the guide responded laconically. He seemed impervious to the flames. Dawn considered this and then shifted her attention to one of the portraits. Dutifully, the phoenix darted over and perched on the top of the frame, setting it alight.”

“Strength,” the booming voice announced. “This attribute determines the physical power you possess.”

“It’s true. The gods are crazy,” Dawn shook her head and forced herself to focus on the task at hand. This place, whatever it was, operated by strange rules. If she stood around gaping every time she tripped over one, she would never find Dusk. On the off chance she had not tripped and knocked herself out, entering some bizarre dream, she needed to pick up his trail. The phoenix had followed her gaze back to the “access node” and lit it up by perching on it. Like the portraits, this device had placards associated with it. As she read each one, the inscription blazed. When the one reading “Exit” lit up, she shrugged and nodded.

“Confirmed,” the voice boomed. Numbers started flashing in the corner of her vision, counting down from ten. She was about to ask what that meant when the count reached zero and the world turned inside out.

She had been trained, when pursuing a target through unfamiliar territory, to pause and search out landmarks the instant her pursuit became disorienting. So, it was habit for her to turn around and study the spot where she emerged before moving on. It was a balcony similar to the one she had just left, with a slowly spinning orb hovering in the center. It took her a moment to realize that it was a representation of her own world, an irregular sphere with land and oceans conforming to the few maps she had seen depicting the whole of Aeirn, wreathed in a tattered cloak of clouds.

She tried not to dwell on it and followed the corridor leading away from the abyss. She immediately passed a couple headed toward the balcony, and could not help gawking at their strange appearance. Their clothing was scandalously cut from some alien material, producing an outfit more sensual and revealing than unabashed nudity. Combined with a physical beauty no mortal could possess, they seemed the very embodiment of lust. Her mind strained to distinguish the male from the female, and she walked on still wondering. The corridor spilled out into a grand mall that stretched from horizon to horizon.

Spotting a group of individuals loitering at the intersection, she steeled her nerve and asked if they had seen Dusk, and his entourage, pass by. After giving a brief description of the group, one of them nodded and pointed out which way they had gone. She could hear them talking about her, referring to her as “the Phoenix” in excited tones, as she ran off. She could not help taking in the sights as she searched for an elevated perch from which to spot Dusk. It was not hard to imagine herself in the home of the gods. Everything was built on an overwhelming scale, the architecture summoned straight out of dreams. The phoenix attending her darted inexhaustibly from point to point illuminating incredible wonders and flooding her with a sea of information about each.

She felt as if she was walking through a marketplace that dealt in satisfying every whim, curiosity and perversity of the human mind, as well as a host of inhuman interests she had never even imagined. Unlike any market she had ever wandered, there seemed to be nothing to cater to the basic needs. With the exception of sex. In the sea of taunting lures to a legion of incomprehensible activities, there were no food sellers, no water bearers or directions to where a person might relieve herself. There were no hostelries or inns. The only commodity in great supply was someone, something, or somewhere to fornicate. How, she wondered, in a place where sexuality was so out in the open, did sex become embroidered with such obviously lurid, gross and guilty trappings as she was seeing? Did the gods, in their immense spirituality, focus on sex for it’s sheer carnality? The only thing that competed with sex, for sheer volume of interest, was a thousand variations of raw, unadulterated carnage and death.

She was relieved that the object of her search forced her to tune out the importunances of both. She continued on, clambering up and down any obstacle which offered a place to perch and scan the top of the crowd.

Finally, she spotted her quarry. He was still in the middle of the group that had accompanied him, following the strange messenger. Dropping down from the statue she had climbed, she sprinted after them, dancing through the mass of strange beings thronging the avenue. When she finally broke into the clear, Dusk and his friends were nowhere in sight. She found herself in a huge plaza where people milled about in groups preoccupied with their own business. When she approached one group to ask if anyone had seen Dusk pass by, most of them just shrugged.

“You’re wasting you time describing this guy,” a stranger said from beside her. “Appearances mean nothing here. You should know that. You’re the Phoenix. What’s with the noob attitude?”

“Noob attitude?” Dawn bit her lip. A voice in her head cut in. Noob. Abbreviated slang: Noobie, newbie. New person, novice.

“What’s the matter?” he asked, studying her appearance. “Did you get stuck in character? Have you been playing the game so long you lost touch with reality?” He looked at the bird circling her head. “Never mind. Your AI obviously loves you and takes care of you, or you would have lost your handle already. This guy you’re looking for, does he have a handle?”

Dawn waited for the voice in her head to explain the terms, and then thought hard. The messenger had asked for… “The Dragon.”

“The Dragon?” he studied her, thinking. “You come out of the game, stuck in character, and you’re looking for the Dragon. He must have put a serious whammy on you. I probably don’t want to get involved, but… I’ll help you on the condition that you tell me, when you have your head straightened out, what this is all about. I am sure it will be a great story.”

“Whatever. Can you help me?”

“I’ll see what I can do. The Dragon covers his tracks real well. In the mean time, go over there and do something to help yourself. Go to Information, Tutorial, and try to catch up on things. Your head’s way messed up.” He directed her to kiosk where ghostly voices and text emerged in response to inquiries. Like the guide, they instructed her in bizarre incantations that caused more words and images to flash before her eyes, which she struggled to comprehend and use. She almost lost her water when selecting “Information, Tutorial” summoned a demon that started pouring ideas into her head like a fountain. After a moment she realized there was no trauma involved in the process, just some queasy disorientation. When it was over, she suddenly understood exactly what Dusk had meant when he called demons harmless in their natural place, and how he had had information he could not explain about the powers outside of their world.

Once they cleared the Annex, Dusk had allowed the messenger to take the lead. Under other circumstances, he would have enjoyed a visit to the Threshold. Ever since he had been “recruited” to do security work for the government, he had been banned from open access, leaving the game he had just left as his only outlet. He remembered the confrontation with Dawn, with a smile. She was a perfect example of just how sophisticated the game had become. It had been disturbing to hear one of the constructs of the game criticizing him for not taking it more seriously. The truth was, he took it far more seriously than anyone else. Although he was ultimately responsible for creating it, it was really a product of the Threshold. The more he worked with it, and the tool he had used to create it, the more he understood the awesome potential of the Threshold itself.

Until his generation, and the coming of hackers like himself, the Threshold had simply been a communications network. It had been created, by absolute luck and pure genius, to serve as a real time communications link for interstellar civilization. It was that and more. In addition to being a faster-than-light point-to-point interface, it had possessed other, more valuable properties. In addition to transmitting information from one node, or mote, to another, each node had the capacity to store and process information. These properties had not been fully understood when political pressure, and available technology, forced the creation of an interstellar communications network.

Even though communications traffic was completely unsecured using the network, general ignorance about the technology and how it worked initially kept this from becoming a problem. The agencies responsible for implementing the technology believed that standard quarantine and encryption practices were sufficient to guarantee the integrity of any systems utilizing to the network. Unfortunately, the key to the mystery had been given, at a moderate retail price, to everyone. It did not take long for a community of hackers to form, dedicated to probing the untapped potential of the motes. Establishing that the motes possessed the properties of memory and processing capacity, and discovering that those processors were every bit as instantaneous as the point-to-point transmissions, or that the motes seemed to have almost infinite storage capacity, the first entirely virtual computers were designed.

Initially, the only security those systems had was proprietary code and architecture. Building the virtual machines involved the creation of customized maps to harnessed resources. Custom machines meant custom programming and that led to a host of platforms that were totally incompatible. Inevitably, modules were written to improve connectivity and share resources. Soon enough, the computers were sophisticated enough to normalize code through smart modules offering adaptive, reverse-engineering code interpreters.

The Threshold had evolved as the master construct incorporating all these exposed systems. Basically, the network became the computer. That computer became the sole property of those who knew how to exploit it best. At one point, that had been him. Like most people who used the Threshold, he had relied on the sheer immensity of the system to protect his own programs and data. Having grown up with the Threshold, he had lived with it’s strengths and weaknesses. Until the game, his pride and joy, fell prey to freakers and tweakers. Either he found a way to create a secure environment on the Threshold, or he allowed the game to dissolve into mindless chaos. Exploiting a property he discovered in the motes, and his own brand of genius, he succeeded in creating both a secure environment and a secure interface to preserve the integrity of the game.

This accomplishment brought with it its own kind of fame. The government, desperate for a safe, reliable way to exploit the resources of the Threshold, was quick to seek him out. The government was not the only organization who prized his talent. As much as these other organizations desired to acquire him for their own schemes, they were even more concerned with preventing the government from acquiring him. By rebuffing the advances of these organizations he became the target of abduction and assassination, and so did his friends and family. The government eventually secured his services by providing protection for him, his friends and family. He in turn provided the government with secure systems.

Unfortunately, one aspect of that security had a flaw. That flaw only existed, and could be exploited from, within the game. He had discovered it a few months ago and taken steps to deal with it. He had believed no one else knew about it. Until the messenger arrived. The threat he had hinted about to Dawn was very real. The government, if it discovered the flaw, and its specific nature, had sufficient leverage to force him to dissolve the game. That was the last thing he wanted. If the person he was going to meet knew what he feared, the situation would become more complicated.

The only thing he could do about it at the moment, was follow the messenger and find out. When they reached their destination, he discovered that he was not the only one, after all, who had figured out how to secure access and resources. He was also surprised to discover that the informant was someone he knew. In an environment where everything was an illusion, people made their names, and reputations, by creating and keeping a handle. The first thing to look at was his or her sprite. No other appearances mattered. He hardly glanced at the grave looking, little-boy, focusing on the black snake coiled around his wrist, and greeted his old friend in familiar fashion.

“Asp. You bastard. What’s with all the cloak and dagger?”

“Dragon. So, this is the character you’re playing now? Kind of young.”

“You’re one to talk. Your message said this was urgent, so if you don’t mind, we can trade insults later.”

“No problem.” Asp dismissed the messenger with a glance, and led the way through a door. Dusk told his escort to wait and followed. As the door closed behind Dusk, Asp gestured for him to take a seat. “Here’s the skinny.

“As you know, I am a member of the Assassins Guild.” Dusk nodded. The Assassins Guild was a group of hackers who tended to play exclusively “evil” characters in the game. Not a great deviation from what they were in the real world. “A couple of months ago a rumor started circling through the underworld. Something about a demon getting lose on the Threshold and returning with, shall we say, proprietary government information. Now, most players read the boards, and so talk was kept entirely in house. A few weeks ago, some noob sold the story to some special interest group. They started shopping around for a contractor willing to test this rumor, and exploit it.”

“Shit. How do you know this?”

“Guess which group took the job?”

“The Assassins?”

“Yup. Some of us, anyway. I did not know about the leak or the contract at first. What I knew was that this noob, Mortis, recently joined the ranks and started his own little cell. You know these punks. Everyone is out to make a name for himself. Anyway, I got fed up with this little prick a couple of days ago and decided to teach him a lesson. I dropped a worm on him that picked up his maps, then cleaned out his resources. In the process I got his logs, bank accounts, and personal records. That’s when I figured out the plot.” Asp picked up a book from the table beside him. “This was in his archives.”

“What is it?”

“That’s the larval form of the worm they released in the game.”

“You’re shitting me!” he examined the book. In this form it was entirely harmless. He called up a diagnostic program to parse the encapsulated code, but, with a simple language module from the game he could practically read it off the pages. It was not hard to see why Asp insisted on meeting him outside of the game. His famous security had truly been compromised now. “Well, this should make it easy to kill. How much do you want for it.”

“I am tempted to take you for all your worth, but honestly it’s worthless. According to his logs, they took the program to the demonologist the rumors started with, and employed him to incorporate the code in a demon. He scanned the text and then lectured them on what a piece of crap it was. I swear, the characters in that game are so damn sharp it’s a wonder they don’t actually know what they are. I would bet he does. I wish I could tell you who the demonologist is, because that cat knows too much about how the game works, and more than he should about our world.”

“I agree, that is not good for the game, but it is not beyond the capabilities of an AI. All they need is access to information and resources and they can do some really impressive stuff. The game itself is more the creation of my AI than me.” Dusk shook his head. “So, I assume the capsule for the actual worm was delivered, and probably destroyed in the process of being incorporated in a demon.”

“Correct. I’ll give you a copy of the logs, but that’s essentially it. Since this is the rough draft, I assume you can deduce its objectives and find some way to get ahead of it. Apart from that, you know it’s there, you know what it wants. I’ll work on getting more information out of that punk. I can’t be too obvious about helping you. It’s one thing to fight amongst ourselves. Quite different if one of us betrays another. It’s kind of a shame you just amped the game like that. I imagine you had a reason for starting a new campaign when you did, but the timing is real bad. By running the game in quick mode you gave the demon a twenty year head start on you. You better move fast.”

“Painfully true, but ironically, I started this campaign to create a response to the demon threat, and more importantly the exploit that creates it. I just got ready to hunt demons, now I have a demon to hunt. If you can find out who helped create it, I can work on that problem too.” Dusk stood up to shake the boy’s hand, “What do I owe you?”

“Keep the game running and you won’t owe me anything.”

“You’re an evil, scheming bastard, Asp,” Dusk grinned. “But a very good man. I’ll do my best.”





Book One · The Eve of Paradox

Chapter Three

Dawn sat patiently to the side of her strange benefactor’s group, studying an immense water sculpture in the center of the plaza. Outwardly, she appeared composed and natural, while inwardly she was in terrible conflict. It was almost reasonable to say she was terrified and barely managing to keep herself in check. Her mind raced around the information that had recently poured into it. She had taken the stranger’s advice to reorient herself, but she did not like the idea that act now forced her to confront. Little things, like how to identify her benefactor as “Race Monkey” due to the strange creature in the flying contraption darting around his head, were practical bits of information she could deal with. It was the implications, taking all the bits of information and putting them together, that disturbed her. Particularly since, upon correcting his assumption about her, the final conclusion was that she did not really exist.

She certainly did not feel like a fiction cut loose from a “fantasy game world.” If anything sounded like a fantasy to her, it was the idea that all of this, everything she knew, existed in the heart of a vast mechanism—a computer, she reminded herself—that could not be seen or touched because it was all just information passing back and forth between motes smaller than a speck of light. Her disbelief had caused her to ask for more and more information, from the demon that never once tried to rape her mind or steal her body.

The problem was, the more information she received, the more sense it made. The harder she tried to find a flaw in the data, the more evidence she was forced to confront. She had gorged herself on alien history and technology, and it was impossible for all this information to spontaneously pop into existence. There was a clear and logical progression to everything she researched. She had not once run into an explanation that wrote something off as inexplicable magic or miracles. Human beings, in their desire to share their ideas, had created something that allowed them to pool those ideas into some sort of collective dream. Since she had been born in that dream, or some corner of it, she was a dream.

But she was her own dream. She had her own thoughts and feelings. She had her own reality. She would not be screaming and fighting inside if she did not. She argued with herself, pointing out that the very philosophy this alternate reality was founded on—the most basic tenets of its “science”—was adherence to what could proven, through measurement, observation, and repeatable experimentation. Science was an impressive catalogue of what people outside of this Threshold knew. But it also silently admitted that they did not know everything. She might need the rest of her life to ascertain the true nature of reality. But, she could reach this conclusion here and now. The Threshold was real. Its reality extended to that which was created with it and in it. She might not exist outside of it, but she did exist in it.

Her existence, while different in nature, was valid.

Because people who lived outside the Threshold might not perceive that, or believe it, it was entirely reasonable that they would, without qualm, destroy her world, along with her, if it caused them serious inconvenience. If the demons—the programs—that organized her world became perverted and dangerous, and wreaked havoc in other areas of the Threshold, her world could easily be seen as more than an inconvenience. It might even be seen as a threat. In confronting herself, she could not deny that rogue demons might not be the only threatening aspect of her world. The implications were mind boggling, but there was no question that she would do everything in her power to help Dusk protect their world from such an end.

There was only one problem.

She had gone over things in her head and one thing had stuck out as an alarming possibility. Dusk was not, like her, indigenous to her world. Race Monkey had assumed that she was, like him, a denizen of that outer world, a master of the Threshold. He had reached this conclusion by associating her with the Dragon, and that was Dusk. She had not pursued that line of inquiry at the information kiosk, but she could refer to her own experience with him and safely conclude that he was a “gamer.” The things she had said to him that morning rang in her ears as the highest testimony. He was so obviously out of place in her world she, in complete ignorance, had noticed it.

Would it be a good idea to confront Dusk here? Could she be risking her whole world by demonstrating how far she had come to reach him? She found herself hoping that Race Monkey failed utterly in tracking him down. It suddenly seemed far wiser to retrace her steps and get back to where she belonged, before anyone figured out what she was. Not being inclined to wait on someone else’s failure, she studied what she had learned and came up with an excuse to disrupt his search. Standing up, she approached Race Monkey.

“Still no joy,” he said, looking up at her.

She frowned and studied the translation before responding. “That’s alright. You’ve done enough by trying to help me.” She put on a thoughtful expression. “I am thinking this is just some kind of glitch. I am going to go log back in, log out, and see if that fixes it.”

“That might not be a bad idea. Well, go try it. If you are still having problems, and the guide can’t fix it, look me up and I’ll see what I can do.” He shrugged and shut down the programs he had been working with.

“No problem. Thanks!” she leaned over and kissed his cheek before departing. As casually as possible she retraced her steps, not looking back until she had been swallowed by the crowd. Once she had determined that no one was following her, she raced back to the balcony where she had first emerged. While the Threshold had lost a great deal of its mystery, it was just as strange as before. It revealed a lot about the people of that unseen other world, if not about that world itself. There was a lot more for her to learn before she would ever feel safe in its shadow, but that would have to wait. She crossed over to the Annex, and worked out how to return to where she had departed. She made haste to exit the gallery and lose herself in the gardens. If anyone asked about her absence, she could just say she had been dreaming, curled up in some obscure nook of the sprawling temple.

It was disturbing to discover, as she entered the gardens, that it was now late evening. She did not think she had been gone more than a couple of hours. By her estimate, she had lost twelve. This was confirmed as twenty-one bells rang from the Sanctuary towers, when she was halfway back to the hostel. Her mentor was going to lynch her for vanishing for so long.

It came as a relief to discover, upon arriving at the hostel, that Amber had yet to return from conferring with the master. A message had been delivered informing her that she had been free to amuse herself for the day. She stationed herself in the common room to watch for the arrival of Dusk and his cohorts, and catch a late evening meal. Amber arrived while she was eating and joined her in silence. That meant the had a great deal to talk about when they retired to their room. Dawn helped herself to additional portions to delay their retreat, until Dusk finally arrived.

When Dusk did appear, he came over to apologize for running off on her. She forgave him easily when she detected no suspicion of her own activities in him. He excused himself to eat, with her blessings, after she promised him they could talk more the next day. Amber met her eye with a smile and rose from the table. Dawn would not need to explain her procrastination. Amber obviously had her own theory. If her universe had not flipped end over end, it would have been entirely accurate.

Once they were secure in their room, the great deal they had to talk about boiled down to: “Master Vinewood will examine you a couple of days before the trials. There is no point rushing it, since no amount of time will suffice if you are not equal to the challenge. Our current crisis, however, is now this.” Amber held up a letter with the seal of the Regent of the Phoenix House. It was addressed to Dawn in the care of her master. She took it with a heavy sigh. Amber patted her on the shoulder, “Since she can’t possibly be acting on what we discussed this morning, she has no doubt invented something else.”

The letter itself had been innocuous. It summoned her to attend the opening of Redleaf Manor, when the Regent of the Phoenix House arrived the next day, and a reception that evening, to ensure that all of Dream Gate was properly impressed with the occasion. Naturally, as the heir, it would not be proper for her to remain in a common hostel once she had the benefits of a functioning household, with servants and staff to attend to her as her nobility demanded. Incidentally, it would be ridiculous for Amber to presume upon this hospitality, since adequate quarters were already provided for her, to impose herself upon her charge. To do so would imply that the House was inadequate to ensure Dawn’s protection. Years of such interventions had taught Amber and Dawn how to interpret the regent’s machinations.

She would go to greater lengths to separate the two, but to do so at such a delicate time for Dawn, the preface to the trials, was truly diabolical.

Not that they could say that. They would never hear the end of how horrible and impertinent it was to suggest that the regent’s conscientious concern for, and devoted duty to, Dawn, Chosen of the Goddess, Heir to the Phoenix House and Legacy, was in any way suspect. Which would lead into another attack on Amber, the “criminal” outcast, and her damaging influence on Dawn. And the truth was, if Crimson hated anyone more than Dawn, it was Amber.

Perhaps that was because Amber had been recognized as a legitimate offspring of the Phoenix House, and Crimson had not, although their histories had been nearly identical. Both of them had been orphans discovered after the Purge, who had no way of tracing their heritage back through the rubble of three generations of assassinations planned to dissolve the house. Both of them had pursued noble rank through initiation, but Crimson had schemed to enter the Phoenix House through marriage, and used all of her influence, aided by undisclosed means, to ruin Amber. Disgraced in a watertight plot, Amber was discharged from the house and denied the rank and title she would have achieved through her initiation. Crimson, having survived the massacres that ended the purge, found herself elevated to the position of Regent over Dawn. Of course, if Dawn had not survived the last massacre herself, the wealth and power of the entire House would have devolved onto her.

Dawn always dreaded the thought of staying alone under the same roof with her. It gnawed at her gut all night long, as she struggled in vain to sleep. Breakfast was a few bites she managed to choke down with a great deal of water, which her stomach worried nervously all the way from the hostel to the gates of Redleaf, a couple of hours later. Dawn was hoping that Crimson had decided to be fashionably late. The woman absolutely loathed the prospect of leaving her bed in the morning. At the same time, she was an early riser, and expected everyone to be ready to attend to her needs. The staff and servants had probably come straight up from the port when the ship docked, and spent the whole night cleaning and airing the premises in preparation. The gateman who let her into the grounds certainly looked as tired and nervous as she. Dawn made her way to the main entrance, and stationed herself there to await Crimson’s grand entrance. When this occurred, at half past nine bells, the first thing her regent commented on was her wrung out appearance.

“I don’t see how that woman can claim to be taking good care of you,” she lectured as Dawn followed her into the foyer. “It speaks well of you that you do not complain of her treatment of you, Dawn. But certainly, your face speaks for itself. She’s taking advantage of her position to take advantage of you. On top of all that training you do, she must run you death with silly errands and menial tasks. I say, an initiate must learn humility, I know I certainly did in my time, but there are limits. I don’t know how you manage not to see it.” She turned and studied Dawn. Sighing dramatically, she turned and led the way into a study. “You’re not too sharp, girl. But, you’re the future of this house, and I aim to do all in my power to see you come out well. You’re truly lucky to have me to look out for you.”

“I suppose there is a kind of luck about it,” she responded in the appropriate pause. All bad, she thought to her self with a wry grin. Crimson regarded her sternly. Dawn composed her face and stared at a fixed spot to the left of her regent. The woman continued to regard her until Dawn answered with the expected phrase, “Naturally I am grateful for all you do.”

“As well you should be. Now take a seat and tell me how you and that fine boy, Dusk, have been getting along.”

Dawn posed herself in the tall, regal chair, in which it was impossible to relax and watched as her regent settled herself comfortably upon the couch. She had performed this dance too many times to miss that step. “Well, as you know, this is the first time we’ve been in the same location for more than three months. We’ve only had a moment to speak since I arrived, and if I may say without offending, my summons to see you has caused me to miss my appointment with him.” She could not resist sticking that pin under Crimson’s nails. Her scheming had gotten them betrothed, it was delightful to blame it for coming between them.

“Ah. Too bad, but I assure you it was unavoidable. We will simply have to make it up to him this evening. I have the best maids in waiting here to prepare you for this evening, and I have informed his master to make some arrangements for him as well. You two should look your best for the announcement of your wedding.”

Dawn sucked in a breath and bit her lip. “Tonight?” was all she dared ask. She hoped that question conveyed by itself her protest at the timing of the event. What person in her right mind would announce a wedding in the middle of trials? But that was the trap, because of course, no reasonable person would expect a lady on the verge of being married to participate in the trials. A man could certainly announce his marriage in the middle of trials, all he had to do was show up at the proper time. It actually worked to his advantage to come to the nuptials having so recently proved himself. A lady was expected to absorb herself in the preparations for the event. Crimson, playing her cards close to her chest, simply raised her eyebrows, as if she could not imagine what might be wrong with sharing the good news. “Are you sure this is the right time for such an important announcement?”

“Yes, it is the perfect time,” Crimson smiled lovingly. “It is exactly one year since you two were formally introduced. It’s tradition. I know this seems sudden, but don’t worry. I have everything planned.”

Dawn tried to swallow the lump in her throat, while commanding her hands to cling tightly to her knees. It would not do to have them wrap themselves around her regent’s throat. In a strained voice she responded, “Yes. I see that you do. And while I am fabulously grateful, I do have one concern.”

“Nonsense. There is nothing to be concerned about. Dusk will be grateful to have you. Any man would. I understand he is a bit absented minded, but I assure you, it does not mean he is uninterested. No man is uninterested,” she winked. “I know you have worried about that, you have told me many times. But, on your wedding night his eyes will open and you will become his one and only. That is how it is with absent minded men. They may stray in many directions, but not in that one.”

Dawn was flushed, more out of growing anger than embarrassment, but she was willing to work with it. “I, truly, did not have any concerns in that regard. It is just, I have to ask. Are you aware that I have trials at the end of this week? Surely there has been some oversight.”

Crimson made a good show of surprise and agitation. Making all the proper noises, showing proper distress, but she never swayed from her master plan. “This is so unfortunate,” she concluded after a few minutes of squawking. “It seems such a shame to waste all of that training, but what’s done is done. Everything has been arranged, and, so many important people are expecting this.” Dawn did not doubt it. A lot of important people would love to see the power of the Pheonix House fall into dragon hands. Those people would certainly see to Crimson’s advancement as a reward for such a brilliant sabotage. Of course, such a conspiracy would only be proven after the fact. By then, it would be too late. “The announcement is really just a formality, a confirmation. If we fail to make the announcement, our house will look so bad. It could be seen as an insult to the Dragon House, maybe even the Emperor himself!”

Dawn stared at her. “You mean, no matter what the cost, this is going to happen tonight?”

“I am so sorry, Dawn. I am afraid so.”

Crimson had planned her trap exceedingly well. After dropping the bomb on Dawn, she had sent the girl off to be bathed, primped, polished and dressed for the occasion, conveniently assuring she could not get away to confer with her mentor. Perhaps she counted on Amber’s well known aversion to psychic intercourse to ensure that Dawn brooded helplessly in the clutches of her maids in waiting. What she did not know was that Dawn herself had no such qualms about exposing her naked thoughts to an equally useful ally. Though Dusk and Dawn had heeded their mentors’ advice about not indulging in physical intimacy during their official courtship, they had a long history of exchanging thoughts and feelings, starting with their introduction to the psychic arts. It did not take long for her to get his attention and relate the entire interview to her absent minded paramour.

Dusk did not need a map and compass to see how brilliantly Crimson had cornered Dawn. Dawn’s revelation preempted the visit by Dusk’s mentor, conveying the news from Master Vinewood, allowing him to alert Amber in detail before he too became tied up in preparations. Dusk reached out to Dawn and assured her that the news had been passed on. Since there was no way for their mentors to be excluded from such a public event, they could count on some impressive fireworks to erupt when Amber finally had a chance to confront Crimson. Until then, they agreed to focus on finding some way to disarm or diffuse the trap before they were caught tight in its jaws.

It did not occur to Dawn until after their final contact that she had risked exposing everything she had learned the day before to Dusk. After a moment of dread, she shook it off and assured herself that she had been so outraged by Crimson’s actions, her thoughts had been focused on nothing else. Dusk’s own thoughts had been equally well masked by his irritation at the ridiculous distraction from important matters all of this had suddenly become. If all she had cared about was his affection for her, the tenor of his thoughts might have been painfully discouraging. The only indication of his secret life was his eager anticipation to hear her decision about joining his crusade. There was no doubt they would be talking about that, as soon as they came up with a way to foil Crimson’s plot.

Or at least cripple it a bit.

As the day progressed and evening approached, Dawn stormed her brain searching for anything that could diffuse the situation. She was still scratching for ideas as she stood in a reception line greeting the guests as they arrived. As Crimson had warned, the establishment of the empire had taken a strong interest in this affair. Among the lords and ladies who appeared before her were representatives of royal families from every corner of the shattered continent, as well as the imperial heir, representing the interests of the emperor and empress themselves. Ostensibly, they had all come to observe the trials, in which some brother, sister, son or daughter was participating. There was no way Crimson could have failed to note this when she schemed to take advantage of their presence here to corner Dawn.

Dusk, when he paused before her to take her hand in greeting, assured her with a confident smile and slight nod, that he had come up with something. Her panicked expression changed to one of relief as he moved on with the parade. He quickly vanished into the crowd of nobles that circulated like a pot of boiling water. Eventually, Dawn had greeted and exchanged pleasantries with all of the official guests, and was able to break free to find some refreshment while tracking down her allies. Each of the masters present for the trials had been received with the courtesies due to their illuminated status, but their subordinate instructors, herding the throng of mentors and initiates, had entered en mass through one of the side doors. It took Dawn a while to find out if Amber had even made it into the manor.

She had earlier caught a glimpse of Dusk escorting the imperial heir, his cousin, into a private chamber. Hopefully, he was putting whatever plan he had into motion. She just hoped that, whatever it was, he had time to enlighten her before Crimson put the two of them on the spot. When a couple tours of the main floor failed to turn up either Amber or Crimson, Dawn knew at once the battle had been engaged in her absence. Hoping that the improvised cloak of obfuscation she had picked up the day before was more than wishful thinking, she focused on blanking herself out and headed up stairs in search of the old rivals. No one seemed to notice, when she stopped at the head of the stairs and surveyed the front hall.

Continuing into the residential area, she allowed her mind to open up and receive impressions from whoever might have ventured away from the party. She was able to quickly dismiss the presence of servants and staff who idled in the wings. There were a few, heated, presences in a couple of bedrooms, but not the kind of heat she expected between such bitter antagonists. Their heat burned like a beacon from the third floor, at the mansion’s furthest extremity. Heading in that direction she quickly stumbled on an obstacle. The servants, overwhelmed by the task set upon them, had isolated and closed off an entire wing of the house, assuring the regent that repairs and renovations were essential before it could be lived in. It had also made a convenient place to stow anything that seemed unfashionably ancient or painfully difficult to clean and polish.

Dawn took one look at the clutter and concluded that it was an ideal alarm system. Fortunately, she knew the place far better than anyone could suspect. In another life, Redleaf Manor had been “that big, old haunted house on the hill” among the boys of Dream Gate. She—or back then, he—had explored every last nook and cranny a hundred times over. Once she pin-pointed the location of her prey, she quickly thought of a route that would put her in a perfect position to eaves drop. Slipping into an unused bedroom, she slithered out of her priceless gown, and climbed out the window onto a ledge. For once, she found herself wishing that her people had adopted the custom of wearing undergarments, or that the dress itself had been designed to be worn over a slip. Unfortunately, neither was the case and where it would be impossible to clean her gown after two steps along her planned route, a damp cloth would suffice to make her skin presentable.

Her hair, at least, had been braided and pinned up out of her way.

From the window ledge, she carefully transferred her weight to fingers and toes, clinging to the mortar cracks of the manor’s outer, stone wall. She progressed carefully, reaching through the thick layer of ivy that competed with her for a purchase on the wall, inching her way up to the roof. From there she crept along the mossy, muddy slate to a peaked window awning, projecting from the room where Crimson and Amber’s angry voices emerged. She slipped onto the window ledge and anchored herself in a position where she could peer in through the upper corner of the glass.

Amber stood in the middle of the room, facing roughly in Dawn’s direction, scowling at Crimson, who was just out of her field of view. “You’re absolutely impossible, you stupid bitch!” Amber growled. Dawn almost spilled from her perch in astonishment. Indignant noises spluttered from Crimson. “No. Shut up and listen, you arrogant little whore. I am tired of hearing you use Dawn’s welfare to excuse your abhorrent, self-serving conspiracies. You’re going to listen to me for once. You’re going to listen, because the only thing you can do now to stop me is challenge me to a duel, and we both know how that will end up.”

“Very well. I am listening,” Crimson suddenly crossed in front of Dawn, pacing before the window in obvious rage. “But if you are wise, you will endeavor not to continue in such an insulting manner. My patience with you is exhausted.”

“That was true the day after we met. I shall simply say this. If you dare to make this announcement, you are threatening to destroy the last hope of the Phoenix House. Maneuvering to put everything into Dusk’s hands, just to keep Dawn from getting it, is not even protecting the welfare of the House. I don’t know what your problem with me is, since you succeeded in destroying my life years ago, but whatever it is, you must not persecute Dawn over it!”

“My objection, as I have made clear from the very beginning, is that she was corrupted by you! You are the one with a vandetta. You persist in saying I destroyed your life, when you can’t produce a shred of evidence to support your claim. I tried to protect her from your influence from the beginning, and now it is too late. You have had ten years to warp her into your own creature. I am not about to let her acquire the power to pursue your agenda.”

“Crimson, you have the mistake of allowing yourself to believe your own lies. This cannot go on.” She shook her head and sighed, strugging for a reasonable tone of voice. “You made an excellent choice in Dusk. He will be an excellent husband to Dawn, and I look forward to their union. But not like this. If you make this announcement, and cause Dawn to forfeit her initiation, everything is lost. Dusk can not help destroying the House, if he becomes its head. He is not a phoenix, he does not carry the Phoenix Legacy, and could not prevent the House from being absorbed by the dragons.

“But ignoring that,” Amber sighed and regrouped, “consider what you accomplish by forcing Dawn to forfeit her career. Crimson, she is meant to be the champion of the Goddess, first and foremost. The very reason the Phoenix House came into existence was to champion the Goddess and protect the faith. How dare you interfere in that?”

Crimson snorted. “Who cares about the Goddess? Did you not learn, as an initiate, that the old gods—all of them—were a bunch of upstart sorcerers who used their knowledge of the art to cow the rest of humanity into subservience. It sickens me that one of them still holds sway over our lives. The rest of the world laughs at us for our foolish obedience to her whims. By what madness do we owe all that we have accomplished to some power hungry relic of the Cataclysm?”

Amber sucked in her shock. “I remember you once ranting in a similar way against the nobility. Now that you have wormed your way into the Courts, do you still feel that the nobility should be torn down? No. I didn’t think so. You’re problem, Crimson, is that you can’t stand the idea of someone having more power than you. You assume that it is rightfully yours and yours alone, and you will stop at nothing to claim it for yourself. I warn you. You defy the Goddess at your own peril. I am done talking to you.”

Amber turned on her heel and slammed through the door. Dawn clung to the window sill, trembling, waiting for Crimson to follow. As she did, her mentor’s last argument ran through her head. For most of her life, Dawn had wondered what “Chosen of the Goddess” in her title referred to. She had assumed, for the most part, that it was an honorarium, a reference to her miraculous survival of the Dream Gate Massacre. She knew that, historically, the Phoenix House had been founded by the champions of the Phoenix, at the end of the Age of Gods, and that it existed to protect the sanctuaries and priestesses of the Goddess. Its army, or in better times armies, defended the rights and welfare of her people, and its champions, paladins, prosecuted their enemies. She had assumed that her training had been to master the legacy, to hold the titles of the house in trust through the reconstruction. Was she also intended to become the first paladin after the Purge?

The question kept her company as Crimson left the room, allowing her to creep in through the window and sneak back through the shadows to retrieve her gown. Along the way, she slipped into a water closet and used the pump and a towel to scrub away the muck and grime. Since she had less need to hide her presence, she was free to use her powers to help make herself presentable as she dressed. Once she had returned downstairs without incident, she sought out Dusk, hoping to confer with him before the announcement. She was forced to move quickly, as Crimson appeared and seating for the banquet began. She headed directly for the room where he had been closeted with the imperial heir and let herself in quietly. They were still seated together, but from the tone of their voices they had lapsed into reminiscing about their childhood. Looking up as she cleared her throat, they rose to greet her. Dusk introduced her to his cousin, who gracefully excused himself, with a wink to both of them.

“I was hoping you would join us earlier,” Dusk opened as he led her to the vacated seats.

“I considered it, but I had to check in on Amber and Cinder.”

“Ah. So I missed the show,” he commented as he sat himself across from her. “How did it go?”

“Fabulous. Amber called her a bitch and a whore, and dared her to challenge her to a duel over it. Crimson accused her of being deluded, and claimed the Goddess was a fraud. It’s a wonder the north wing was not reduced to rubble by lightening.” Dawn smiled as Dusk shook his head and laughed. “Amber also declared that I was intended to become a paladin, and Crimson was taking a big chance putting that at risk,” Dawn confessed in a more self-conscious voice.

“Paladin?” Dusk cried in amazement. Then he leaned back and tapped his lip, “That makes a lot of sense, actually. I am surprised I didn’t guess. But, this is excellent. This guarantees my plan will work.”

“What plan? You still haven’t told me anything.”

“Oh no. I don’t want to ruin the surprise.” He rose to his feet, pulling her up with him and dancing aside as she aimed a kick to his shin. “Be patient. You’ll find out soon enough. You’re reaction is important, since it will keep her from suspecting a conspiracy on our part. Just trust me.”

“That gets harder every time I talk to you,” she growled, as he led her from the room. They emerged just in time to be escorted to their places at the main table, between the regent and the imperial heir. While Crimson fussed over Dusk, Dawn allowed herself to become better acquainted with his cousin. His younger sister was completing her initiation, and he had come to escort her home afterward. He talked openly about his own initiation, completed a year earlier, and encouraged her to share some of her own experiences. Being careful to avoid the insanity of her most recent year, she entertained him with some of her mishaps and adventures, to distract herself from the building tension. Finally, the remains of the meal were cleared away and drinks were poured, with the obligatory toasts.

When Crimson rose from her seat and tapped her glass for attention, the entire hall fell silent, and eyes darted between her and the couple seated next to her. Master Vinewood placed a restraining hand on Amber’s arm as she nearly jumped to her feet.

“My Lords and Ladies, and good people all, it is my duty, and privilege, to announce tonight, the fulfillment of a great promise between the two great houses of the North. If you will allow me, I would like to introduce two fine young people, for those of you who may not already know them.” She gestured for Dusk and Dawn to stand. “Dusk of the Dragon House, son of Mi’night, Lord of Darksands, and Furnace, Princess of Alten and Sister to His Imperial Majesty, Forge. Standing beside him, Dawn, Heir to the Phoenix House and Legacy, Chosen of the Goddess, daughter of the late Phoenix Ember, Head of the Phoenix House.

“One year ago, tonight, they were formally introduced in light of their betrothal. In accordance with tradition, I have the pleasure to announce to you all, the Union of Dusk and Dawn, at nine bells midsummer morning, seven weeks and four days hence. If you would all raise your glasses with me, to toast this happy occasion…” There was a short, sustained rumble of people rising from their seats, accompanied by the soft chime of jewelry on crystal as they reached for their goblets. “To the Bride and Groom.”

The phrase echoed from the mouths of several hundred witnesses, followed by cheers and whistles. When it died down, Dusk cleared his throat for attention. Glancing at Dawn, and seeing curiosity on her face, Crimson gestured for him to make his speech.

“There are,” he began, “very few people who are not aware of the hard times that have befallen the Phoenix House. I am certain that the loss of their leadership has been very hard for the people of the Autumn Dominion, and that the ascension of the Dragon House to replace them has been a cause for some concern. I am painfully conscious, as the people await the elevation of a new head to restore the Phoenix House to its former glory, that this engagement has also been a matter of some concern, and I have spent some considerable time searching for a way to alleviate that concern.

“Out of this great consideration for the people, and their love for their former lords and masters, I have consulted my cousin,” he indicated the heir, who nodded. “Together, we have determined that, out of respect for the people and the traditions of the Autumn Dominion, it is only just and reasonable to seek the blessings of the Goddess before consummating this union.” Cinder reeled on her feet, struggling to keep her face composed. Cheers and applause roared in approval of this announcement, on one hand fueled by the joy of the devout, and the other by the respect of the politically savvy.

“In the meantime,” Dusk added, smiling and putting his arm around Dawn’s shoulder, “while I await the Goddess’s pleasure. I intend to encourage my bride to be to bide a bit, and not tempt fate with wedding preparations. Fortunately, we have trials coming up to distract her!” He laughed, and the people laughed with him. The couple sat down, holding hands openly on the table, and nodded gracefully as people began rising in turn to toast the occasion.

“That was well done,” Dawn beamed, squeezing his hand.

“Best I could do on short notice,” he grinned.

“Yes,” she nodded. “And, yes.”

“And yes what?”

“And, yes, I have decided to join your little crusade. I meant to tell you earlier, but all of this nonsense came up and distracted me.” He looked at her and smiled.

“I could just kiss you.”

“At the moment, you’d probably get away with it.”





Book One · The Eve of Paradox

Chapter Four

Crimson had taken the first opportunity to drag Dusk and Dawn aside and demand an explanation of his declaration. She protested that the blessings of the Goddess were petitioned in the ceremony itself. She expressed a critical concern that his “delaying” the preparations was a prelude to backing out of the engagement. Unfortunately, Dusk had already claimed the high ground. The political concerns he had addressed were very real. He calmly assured her that he intended to petition the Goddess at the first opportunity. She was not in the habit of refusing to hear such petitions, so there was no cause for alarm. When Crimson still insisted that prompt attention to the preparations for the wedding was necessary, he suggested that she focus on getting everything in order. Once he had the Goddess’s blessings, Dawn would be able to quickly complete her preparations. Since a date had been announced, everything else could be arranged accordingly needing only Dawn’s approval.

There was nothing Crimson could do.

Once the evening was over, Dawn retreated to her room. She dismissed the servants, stripped and let her hair down, collapsing exhausted into bed. In spite of a night without sleep, in the wake of months of fitful rest, she found herself staring at the ceiling and brooding. Before leaving, Dusk had taken her aside to talk about the demon threat in more detail. As she had feared, he did not take her into his full confidence and she had found herself debating how to lure him into a full confession. Over the past ten years, she had noticed some bizarre traits and habits on the part of Dusk and a few of his companions and she wondered if she could use her observations to trip him into a confession. When she pressed him to explain his mysterious departure the day before, he confided that he had received a dire warning of a demon that embodied the very threat he had hinted at.

While he discussed his concerns about how to go about locating this particular demon, she toyed with the idea of telling him that she had followed him through a door and behind a curtain which led to a world beyond her comprehension. Not sure whether it should have been possible for her to do so, however, she counseled herself against it. Instead, she forced herself to focus on the problem he presented. She asked him specific questions about what his informant had been able to tell him about the demon, how he had identified it as a threat to this world, searching for some clue as to its nature or motives. He told her the demon was instructed to discover the secrets which ensured the integrity of reality. She asked if he knew who or what possessed those secrets, stating that would be the obvious target. He assured her that only the Goddess knew such secrets, and she smiled and told him that their demon would reveal itself by seeking some way to get to the goddess.

The disturbing part of that was the thought that it might succeed.

How was she supposed to go to sleep with such a dreadful thought on her mind? She found herself dwelling on her most recent nightmare. She could clearly recall overhearing a man observing the critical role demons appeared to play in the Phoenix Massacres. Was it possible that the destruction of her House was evidence of demonic attacks against the Goddess? It seemed such a perfect hypothesis she felt an instinctive urge to discredit it, but she did not know where to start. She was impatient for morning to arrive so she could share her suspicions with Dusk. Thinking about talking to Dusk led to thinking about Dusk and eventually to her first serious contemplation of the prospect of being married to him. She finally drifted off, wondering how a relationship between two individuals from two separate realities could possibly work, and her subconscious mind took over working on the hypothesis.

Her dreams skittered through a number of romantic formulas, dancing wantonly in and out of erotic situations frustrated by a lover who turned into smoke and light when she embraced him, or who turned away from her shocking transformations into the male version of herself. This frustration opened the door for her inevitable nightmares, as demons marched in to destroy all her illusions of a happy life, chased by faceless entities that caused everything the demons touched to melt into formless mist. Caught between this twin menace, Dawn exploded awake panting and cursing under her breath. Collapsing back, she stared sightlessly at the ceiling for an hour, trying to sort through the images. It had been months since her nights had been plagued by any insecurity about her sexuality. Except when something forced her to remember, she had not even thought about it when she was awake. Apparently, resolving the problem within herself did not answer her fears about what Dusk, who had witnessed most of her ordeal, thought about it.

It was just one more thing that would have to be brought out into the open and discussed. Rising from the bed, she crossed the room to confront herself in the mirror. Candle wicks burst into flame in response to her desire for more light, as she studied the image of herself. She was tall and slender, in excellent athletic condition. The curves of her hips and breasts more than sufficient to proclaim her womanhood. She might have been a touch androgynous in a loose shirt and breeches, but there was nothing overtly masculine in her form or bearing. The fact that she could still change that with a thought was balanced by the fact that she had no particular desire to move in that direction. The confusion that had once made her condition uncontrollable had been laid to rest.

She still did not know why the problem had been created in the first place. But she had figured out who she was and, by that, what she was. She never wanted to go through that struggle again. When she went over, fetching a shirt and pants from her wardrobe, and slipped them on, she was confident that her choice was based on the convenience and freedom of movement those clothes allowed her in combat. In that, she was no different from any other female initiate. The only difference was that she had had a taste of the other side of life. The good and the bad, and her experience had made her wiser.

Rather than worrying about what he thought of her as a woman, she should be more concerned about Dusk’s opinion of her as a person. As she listened to the peal of four bells, she sighed and shrugged. She had some time to kill before she could start working on that problem, but a nice long walk would help her dismiss these other disturbances and give her a chance to go over the problems her regent had dropped on her. The worst possible outcome, was that she missed trials and her marriage to Dusk turned her into a well pampered homebody with no voice in politics and an aborted education. The life of choice for a lot of women who became initiates just to acquire suitable husbands. By traditional views, a very respectable accomplishment for a woman, and preferable to the usual alternative of becoming a priestess.

Dawn stopped in the vestibule to slip into her boots and cloak before stepping out into the misty, predawn chill. Dream Gate, on the Phoenix Coast, was in the southernmost reaches of the shattered continent, so it was not intolerably cold. She pulled her cloak tight to keep out the wind, streaming in off the sea, and followed the ridge road to the north edge of the port. She let her feet guide her as she contemplated the Goddess’s response to Dusk’s petition. If Amber had been right, and she was destined to become a paladin, there was little chance that the Goddess would give her blessing to the union. If the Goddess wanted her to marry Dusk, she might offer her blessing, but place some condition upon them which would allow Dawn to complete the trials. Of course, she still had to be tested by Master Vinewood, but after her experience with that demon on the Threshold, her response to them had changed significantly.

Her mind detoured into a sobering contemplation of that alien realm. These thoughts kept her company as she wandered through the early morning. Arriving at the north ridge cliffs, some time after five bells, she sought out the warmth of an inn. The north ridge housed the merchants, sea-men and fishermen whose trade kept them tied to the sea, and the shops and kitchens of the establishments that serviced them were open and bustling before the earliest light. Because of this convenience, the same facilities attracted the city guards, pausing from their rounds or before and after their posting, to warm and refresh themselves. Dawn should have been thinking about where this tidbit of knowledge had come from, because then she would have been prepared for her next confrontation.

“Well. If it isn’t the prodigal son,” a familiar voice crowed from behind her. She knew the voice as well as she knew Amber’s. A voice of wisdom, warning and instruction.

“Thorn,” she turned and greeted her other mentor by name. She resisted the urge to hug him. In his mind she was still a boy, and that display of affection would instantly wake his disapproval. “What are you doing here?”

“When I lost the battle to preserve my charge,” he began, referring to the events of the preceding year, “I was forced to seek another line of employment. Fortunately, Dream Gate can always use a good soldier. They made me a captain of the guard.” He studied her features while she tried to think of a response. It had seriously cost him to preserve her secret. “You’ve matured into a beautiful girl,” he murmured, in a slightly pained voice.

“It’s better than flipping back and forth, or being split into two people again,” she replied. She had already explained her decision to him, and her reasons. What more was there to say?

“Did you even try…”

“With who?” she cut him off, knowing what he was about to suggest again, “That girl my father tried to marry me off to? Correction, that man who claimed he was my father?” Thorn said nothing. “I have more respect for Raven. Should I have given Dusk a try too? Compare and contrast? Is that how you think it works?” Thorn grunted and shook his head. He wandered away without further comment and she folded her arms and cradled her head on the table. That had not gone well. Worse, the cryptic exchange had drawn some attention, and people were staring at her. She finished her drink and stormed out of the inn. She felt more comfortable out in the cold.

She clambered down the rocky cliff to the beach, to wade through the waves and watch the sun come up, wondering what to do about the debt she owed Thorn. She lost track of time, until half past seven bells when she felt a curious contact from Dusk. She opened her mind to him and established contact. She was grateful for the distraction, and the opportunity to share her thoughts with him. Discovering how far she had wandered down the beach, she turned south to head back to the port. As she walked, she relayed her thoughts from the previous evening, including her suspicions that the Phoenix Massacres were evidence of the rogue demon’s assault on the Goddess. She was sharing her memory of the nightmare, re-enacting the Dream Gate Massacre, when she noticed she was not alone on the beach.

In her distraction she had stumbled into the midst of a score of campers. That was a slang term they used among themselves that had somehow come to identify people who remained in Dream Gate past the conclusion of their initiations to hunt the ruins. They supported themselves by collecting on the bounties posted for the destruction of demons or undead that haunted the region. They wandered scattershot along the beach in groups of two or three, talking to each other in subdued voices. Just as she was about to dismiss them as harmless, a chill went up her spine.

Everything came apart in an instant.

As she stepped between two groups, they turned to confront her. At the same time, others took advantage of her open mind to stun her. Three or four campers hammered her in an explosion of psychic energy. The combined blow momentarily paralyzed her higher faculties. Her link to Dusk was cut as she recoiled in shock. Her attackers used the moment to close in on her, drawing weapons. She whirled instantly into dancing mode, twisting, dodging and evading the group as the last of them closed in to attack her. With the economy of motion she had been taught, she used their momentum to disarm, disable or dismiss her opponents in a pattern that caused people and objects to fly away from her as fast as they advanced. Because her psychic defenses had been shattered from the outset, she could not fully recover from the ambush. Her timing and reflexes were disrupted by additional psychic or sorcerous assaults. Dawn was overpowered on the beach, and dragged into a cove.

In spite of the grips that kept her immobilized, she continued trying to resist, to keep them occupied, as she reached inward to regroup. An alarm was going off in her head, warning her that there was something wrong. The best thing she had to work with was the fact that she had been in telepathic rapport with Dusk when her assailants attacked. If he acted quickly, she might survive this. The only problem was, she was not already dead. It took her a moment to realize why her brain insisted that was a problem. Then she understood that she was about to be raped.

“You don’t want to do this,” she warned the young men. Or tried. As soon as she began to speak a hand clamped around her neck in a strangling grip, choking her words. The sound of blood pounding in her ears drowned out their hushed voices and they conferred for a moment. One of them, gripping her from behind, cupped a hand over her breast and spoke harshly in her ear.

“Do not speak. I would warn you to keep silent, but,” he chuckled softly, “from my experience you won’t be able to. Just remember, the more you interfere, the longer this is going to take.”

Dawn moaned at this confirmation. For one second she considered revealing her masculine form, denying them herself. Unfortunately, her male body was not impenetrable, and might well provoke a more dangerous response. Training dictated that her first priority was survival. As horrible as it was, rape could be survived, but panicked resistance could prove fatal. With the odds so heavily against her, her best hope was to give them as little of herself as she could. As soon as they felt her go limp, they began tearing at her clothing. A brutal, symbolic deflowering shared by the group asserting its claim on her. She denied them the pleasure of hearing her protest about her virginity. They needed no additional encouragement. She was already withdrawing into herself, as she had been taught, when another horrible intuition seized her.

None of them were fumbling at their own clothing.

Looking into her assailants’ eyes, she saw the kind of menace that had lurked in the eyes of her mother ten years earlier. Those eyes promised far worse than rape or murder. They had cleverly used her own training to weaken her for a different kind of assault entirely. Having no time to verify her suspicion, she acted. Calling once more on her training, she tried to break away, forcing her consciousness to anchor itself firmly in her flesh. The instant she sensed another presence trying to root itself in her body, something inside her snapped, and she exploded into a blood red rage.

Dusk had leapt into motion the instant he lost contact with Dawn. He had a general idea where she was from the images that had spilled over during their rapport. He was not as familiar with Dream Gate as Dawn’s alter ego, but back in the days when her other side was a separate entity, their rivalry had caused them to become familiar with each others habits and favorite haunts. It seemed kind of silly now to think that they had started fighting because they were among the top five initiates of their generation and had the same name. Now the other Dusk was no more, but his spirit might have guided Dawn’s footsteps. He raced toward the north beach and arrived in time to see the carnage unfold.

It was as if the nightmares she had just been showing him had erupted into life straight out of her mind. As he came in sight, he could see her lying pinned in the middle of a crowd that had ripped open her shirt and stripped the rest of her clothing completely off. While he closed the distance, he saw the youth stretched on top of her suddenly disintegrate into a pile of gore. A second later, her gaze locked on another young man, who also shuddered into a tangle of limbs and organs spilling free on the sand. Dusk came to a dead stop as Dawn freed an arm to pick up the sword dropped by her second victim, while two of the men standing around her lunged in and plunged their swords through her body.

Dawn gasped in agony as one blade entered her belly, and the other punched through her chest, into her right lung. As Dawn screamed, a concussive force exploded outward from her, throwing blood, sand, bodies and bits away from her. Dusk had to drop onto his stomach to dodge the two swords she expelled from her flesh. Everyone scrambled to their feet, but Dawn was already up, propelled by her outburst. As she dropped to her feet, the sword she had liberated chopped through another foe’s arm. The fact that she was even up and moving implied that she had sealed her wounds, and held them closed, with her mind. Her blade twisted through a tiny arc as she reversed her swing to separate a head from its shoulders. As a third man lunged for the opening she had left, she glanced at him. Dusk could actually sense the laser fine thrust from her mind, and feel how it shattered her opponent.

Swallowing his gorge, Dusk stepped in to help her.

He was well armed and composed, his full faculties available for the fight, but he quickly found himself taxed just watching her back. She moved with merciless perfection, slashing, stabbing, striking and shattering one foe after another. At some point they had started running, but she simply reached out and tore them to pieces, forcing them to regroup and confront her with all they had left. The fury that animated her drove her until the last man fell twitching. When she came to a panting halt and confronted her handiwork, she suddenly snapped out of her rage and went into shock.

Her telekinetic grip suddenly relaxed and blood started gushing out of her chest and gut, while she collapsed to her knees and began pitching to the ground. Dusk squatted and caught her, his mind probing her wounds as he cradled her in his arms. The regeneration that was part of the dragon and phoenix legacies had not had enough time to bind her wounds. Like himself, Dawn was better trained in the psychic arts than the magic arts. That power exacted a more immediate price. Combined with her shock, and the exhaustion of her unrestrained psychic onslaught, she was in no condition to repair the damage. Dusk himself had expended a great deal of his energy racing to the scene and jumping into combat. But he had enough left to risk a teleport to the Sanctuary, and hand Dawn over to the healers there.

Their sudden arrival shocked the priestesses, gathered in the courtyard for morning prayers. Dusk lurched and collapsed next to Dawn, joining her in unconsciousness after one plea for assistance.

He only required a good amount of sleep to recover. When he woke it was past the midday hour, and Dawn lay naked under a sheet in the bed across from him. He slipped out of bed and went to her side, probing her body with his thoughts to confirm that her wounds were cleaned and repaired and she was sleeping naturally. He remembered rousing as he was put into bed and informing someone that Dawn had been attacked on the beach. There would be questions to answer, especially by Dawn when she finally woke. An investigation should have already begun. After brushing Dawn’s hair back from her face and kissing her brow, he slipped out to discover what had happened while he had been unconscious.

Rather than seek out a human agent for information, he made his way to the inner sanctum and used a secret door to access the sanctorum. Once inside he secured the other entrances and called out.

“We need to talk.”

He watched as the apparition of the Goddess appeared and resolved into flesh. Here was the source of the features which defined the Phoenix House. Dawn was the final offshoot of the woman the Goddess had resurrected in her own image. Apart from sex, the two were identical. The Goddess was a unique creature, neither male nor female. Though she appeared completely androgynous, she had a unique reproductive system that the gods had adopted, which allowed them to sire or bear children. They, like her, had the flat chest of a man, but otherwise the proportions of a tall woman, which encouraged the use of the feminine pronoun. She looked at him and commented, “You’re out of character, Douglas. That can’t be a good sign.”

“I don’t have time for games right now. I meant to talk to you this morning, but things keep getting more complicated. This ambush goes right over the top.” He ran his hands through his hair in frustration. “You know I need Dawn’s help. Are you trying to screw that up?”

“I’ve told you before. I just set the stage. I don’t control the actors on it. You wanted realism, that calls for autonomous entities. We went through this during the war of the gods.”

“Sorry, Phoenix. I’m not here to yell at you. I just… It’s frustrating. You know as well as I that the game is in jeopardy. I thought that, given the direction things were going, I only needed to nudge things in a couple of places and the problem would fix itself. Unfortunately, while I was setting this campaign up, someone moved to exploit the security flaw. I have a rogue demon, a worm virus programmed to seek out and crack the security core. Thanks to Dawn, I remembered that means you.”

“I know,” she smiled. “I monitor your connections personally. I always do. I have the rough code of the demon in quarantine. I have calibrated all my diagnostics to search for anything derivative in the construct plexus. The demon you are looking for is not active in the public sectors. At the moment it is encapsulated in a subsystem I cannot access. If you want, I can suspend services and run a node to node search until I find out which peripheral it is isolated in.”

“You mean the head? From what I saw this thing leaves a tail in everything it passes through.”

“Correct. The segments of the tail also represent a threat, but only by trapping the head can the problem be resolved. With it, the tail can be quickly rooted out. I suspect the revised worm exploits encapsulated node architecture. There are billions of places for it to hide, and because those places are in fact the psyche constructs of the populace, they are almost impossible to search. This thing is not much different from the infiltration modules you designed to impose the rules of the game at the point of access. It resides within the interface protocols of the infected entities, which puts it technically outside the game. Like any other demon, it can call functions within the game, or another secure environment with the same architecture, because it’s out on the Threshold somewhere.

“My best chance of discovering it is to stop time and interrogate every psyche node while they are paralyzed,” the AI explained.

“No. That’s the last thing you should do. Dawn was right. This thing needs direct access to you to complete its first objective. If you access the node it is in, it could probably infiltrate you faster than you can identify it as the worm. You need an agent to hunt it out for you. Which brings me back to what I meant to talk to you about this morning.

“What Dawn suggested, about the motive behind the Purge, and the Phoenix Massacres, tells me that this demon has probably associated itself with the enemies of the Phoenix House, or someone who can profit from their removal as much as it can. As your champions, they were your first line of attack and defense against threats in the world. I know you never looked at it that way, but strategically, that’s the reality of it. I think that’s contributed to the plots and attacks against Dawn. She’s obviously your best remaining asset. That forces me to ask if you were intending to name her your paladin?”

“Ah. Is this the part where you are asking for me to bless your union?”

“I wouldn’t be the first player to marry a nipic,” Dusk shrugged, referring to Dawn as a Non-Player Character. “But then, I am not playing my typical game here, and I am not that desperate for companionship.”

“What does she think about getting married to you?”

“Are you kidding? Set up for the classic, boy-next-door childhood romance? I am sure she would love to get married, if she can. I know she doesn’t want to throw her career away over it, but,” he shrugged, “I do pick up the vibe from her. I am sure her emotional profile has her in love with me.”

“Does that actually mean anything to you?”

“What? That she loves me?”

“Yes. I love you. I am no more real to you than she is, and in many ways she is more sophisticated and human than I am. Do you love her?”

“Why do you care? Why does it matter? I mean, she is everything I love in a woman, in a person, but it’s… It’s not like we can have a real relationship. She’s a piece of fiction.”

“Well, then. In answer to your petition,” she straightened and assumed the air of a goddess, “I cannot bless your union until you resolve your feelings for her.”

Dusk stared at her and then smiled. “That’s pretty smart. Thanks, Phoenix, that will solve the problem perfectly. I can wait until after the trials, when Dawn graduates, to ‘resolve my feelings’ and discover how truly and deeply I love her. You’re a genius!” he grabbed her and kissed her on the mouth in gratitude.

Phoenix stared at him and laughed. When he looked at her in confusion she shook her head and sighed. “Never mind. I don’t think you get it.” She asked Dusk if there was anything else he wanted to discuss. He asked her to replay the events of the morning, focusing on Dawn’s movements and actions from the time she got up. The recapitulation allowed him to witness her conversation with Thorn, and study what had led up to her devastating response to the assault. For the first time, he noted the shadows that boiled out of the people she had slain. No wonder she had not let any of them get away. He had to share this discovery with the authorities.

The authorities were very interested in talking to Dusk. After appearing and collapsing in the Sanctuary, the city guards were contacted and an investigation was quickly mounted. A captain of the guards had stumbled on the carnage mere moments after Dusk and Dawn vanished from the beach, and summoned help for the wounded. According to his report, the survivors of the conflict all died from their injuries as help arrived. They could do nothing more than pick up the pieces, hoping to identify the slain, and try to figure out what happened. When that captain heard of Dusk and Dawn’s appearance at the Sanctuary, bloody from battle, he had attempted to have them arrested.

His superior, already present while they were being treated, intervened. They were secure enough at the temple, until they had been questioned. They had been looking for Dusk when he emerged from the sanctorum. He explained that he had taken advantage of his presence at the temple to make a petition to the Goddess, as he had vowed. He was happy to sit down and answer the investigators’ questions, giving them a complete recap of the morning’s events from his perspective. Dawn had roused and was brought in after Dusk, to tell her side of the story. By this point the investigators learned the identities of the campers, and it was not hard to guess how they might have been possessed by the demons both survivors claimed were behind the attack. Neither Dusk nor Dawn volunteered to speculate why she had been attacked. The investigators did not ask, either. Sometime late in the afternoon, Dusk and Dawn were escorted to Redleaf where they were placed under house arrest, while the investigation continued.

They remained isolated for the next couple of days, which Dawn spent mostly recuperating. Regeneration ensured that she would recover fully in a few days, but placed great demands on her system. She was either asleep or trying to sate the gnawing hunger it caused. By the second evening, she was able to sit up for a few hours and talk with Dusk. He told her how the Goddess had responded to his petition. For some reason, Dawn seemed to find Phoenix’s declaration particularly satisfying.

“I agree that this foils Crimson wonderfully, but what are you looking so damned smug for?” Dusk demanded, as she sat there studying him with a smirk on her face.

“Because this brings up something we seriously need to talk about.” She fluffed a pillow somewhat roughly, added it to the stack behind her and leaned back. She frowned, her eyes flicking over something only she could see as she gathered her thoughts. “You don’t really think the Goddess said that just for our convenience, do you?”

“I don’t see why not. It is in her best interest to have you pass the trials. I don’t mind taking the heat for that.”

“Oh? You mean you don’t have any real doubts about marrying me? Or about me personally?”

“Oh, rot. We’re talking about an arranged marriage, Dawn. Our feelings were never taken into consideration. I’m not happy about having this thrust on me, but I like you a lot. I don’t have any real objections to you. I just don’t have any personal desire to get married to anyone.” He sighed and looked her in the eye, “From the beginning I set my feelings aside and concentrated on doing my duty. I assumed you did the same.”

“Oh, sure. We talked about this when we were first told about it,” she agreed. She reached out and laid her hand on his cheek. “I also seem to recall that you and I had a number of crushes on each other while we were growing up. We both agreed that a lot of it was hormones, and the kissing and touching was typical for kids like us, exploring our sexuality. We agreed that Crimson had set us up with the perfect excuse to go too far and have to marry early. I think we even agreed not to fall in love, to keep that from happening.” She took her hand away and added sternly, “But I am not asking about then. I am asking about now.”

“What do you mean?” he fidgeted on the bed beside her.

Dawn began pulling at the ties, opening her shirt down the front. “I mean, after all that happened last year, are you afraid I’m not quite the girl I used to be?” she focused on his eyes, watching as they strayed nervously to her chest. She continued loosening her shirt, exposing a track from her neck to her navel, without fully exposing her breasts.

“Dawn. Don’t…” he reached out when she grabbed the lapels of her shirt and began pulling them back.

“Why not? We’ve been engaged for a year now. You’ve been in my room alone with me for two days now. You think anyone imagines we haven’t been intimate, or that we haven’t every right. They can’t rush us to the alter any faster than they are. Why not?” she stared at him. “We’re good friends. Isn’t that enough for us get more intimately acquainted?”

“I don’t want… Dawn, you don’t need to do this for me.”

“I don’t agree,” she huffed, folding her hands in her lap. Her shirt fell open a bit more on it’s own, exposing a hint of her areolas. “I certainly need to do this for me. I’ve wanted to do this for years, but I… well, first I was afraid you thought of me as just one of the guys. Then I was one of the guys. That’s all over now, and I came to trials hoping we could—we would—do this.”

“Ah, Dawn.” He shook his head and looked down. When he looked back up his face was earnest. “That never mattered to me. I think you had more trouble with that than I ever did. I always thought it was fascinating. I admit, I was never turned on by you as a guy. But, I tend to think that your experience makes you a better woman, and, Goddess, it’s not like I want to say no. I just don’t feel right about taking advantage of you. I don’t want to use you for my pleasure.”

“Why do you look at it like that? What about my pleasure? Do you think the experience isn’t mutual?” she stared at him, steaming. “There on the beach, when I thought I was about to be raped, the one thing I regretted was that I had been saving myself for you.” Dusk remained silent, struggling with the feelings she was provoking and almost angry that the game could do this to him. With all the realism, with the complexity of the characters, he had always struggled to keep from becoming too attached. He shut his eyes as he struggled within for perspective. He felt her sliding out the opposite side of the bed and looked up in time to see her nightshirt spill off her shoulders. She stepped out of the garment, piled at her feet and came around the bed to confront him. “The way things are going, I could die the next time I step out that door. I always dreamed that you would come to my bed, in an act of love. But to be perfectly frank, I’d be happy if you just fucked me. Used me and walked away, because at least I would know I won’t die a virgin.”

Dusk had been too distracted by her nudity to rise from the bed. Now she had him pinned against the edge of the mattress. If he stood, he would be pressed up against her, but if he tried to retreat over the bed, she would be on top of him in an instant. It was an absurd situation. He grabbed her hands and clasped them together in his own, conveniently putting an obstacle between their bodies. “Dawn. I understand. I really do. This is just not the time. You’re still recovering from the fight. If you keep pushing you could get hurt and your injuries might scar. We can’t afford that, not with trials coming up.”

“Then give me another answer,” she pleaded.

“I just told you I am not repulsed by you. For crying out loud, just look down and you will see how attracted to you I am. What more do you possibly need to know?”

“I know men. A hole in the wall is enough to get you excited. But you,” she emphasized, pulling away from him and stalking over to a mirror, “you keep talking about how you feel. You don’t want me to indulge your desires. You don’t want to use me. Like what I want doesn’t even enter the picture.
She turned and glared at him, “Do you know what that sounds like to me? It sounds like the only person who is real to you is you.”





Book One · The Eve of Paradox

Chapter Five

Dawn maintained her level glare as she waited for him to respond. He was at a complete loss. The accusation still rang in his ears. It cut him to the quick. He just stared at her, standing tall and proud, stark naked, with her gorgeous red hair spilling over her shoulders. Her eyes, normally an impenetrable grey mist, were a brilliant emerald green. The way her breasts gently heaved with each breath, and the muscles of her legs and belly tensed as she unconsciously adjusted her balance, sent stabs of desire through him. The memory of her blood, spilling hot and viscous over his hands as he held her injured body, screamed in support of her reality. His fingers clenched the sheet on the bed, the friction of the movement revealing the fine weave of the fabric. The sweat that popped out on his brow trickled down the side of his face. Through it all, he struggled with himself.

The illusion was so perfect. For the first time he forced himself to confront what he had caused to be created. He had set an intelligence with access to unlimited resources the task of simulating reality to the finest detail. His AI had no concept of limits, except those that were imposed on her. He never really asked how far she had gone to fulfill his instruction. He knew that this world was ultimately just information, art imitating life. At the same time, he had grown up taught that the universe he lived in was mostly empty space in which a vast web of matter and energy was woven together in complex patterns. What were those patterns, ultimately, but information stored in the medium of time and space?

As he continued staring, immobile, her expression began to change to worry. She approached him cautiously, reaching out. “Dusk? Are you going to answer me? Are you going to say anything?”

Dusk turned to track her as she came forward. His mind was elsewhere, racing through the archives where he stored game related code, searching for the architecture that defined the minds of the game’s native inhabitants. Desperate to find out how a construct had performed such a subjective analysis of him. Finding it, he took it apart, trying to determine how the personality and intellect of each entity was cultivated. What he found made him pale. The annotations Phoenix had made were unbelievably detailed, referring to entire realms of psychology and neuro-linguistic programming. The only constructs Phoenix had created, the only hard code involved, was the simulation of organic chemistry. The game created body-brain constructs, the physiological tools and an interactive environment with which the nodes, captured to operate those constructs, programmed themselves through experience.

He was staring at a perfect imitation of a living woman, but the person who inhabited that body was in no way artificial. Phoenix had provided all the resources for her to become a unique, self determined consciousness. She was aware of herself. Aware of him, not as an interactive variable, but as a person. His eyes lighted up with awe at the discovery.

“Dusk! Say something! You’re starting to scare me,” Dawn hesitated, not sure what to make of his expression. She looked uncertain, worried and wary at the same time.

“You’re alive,” he gasped.

Dawn’s eyes widened in shock, and she stepped back. Thoughts flashed over her face as she stared at him. Self conscious, angry, but angry with herself. Dusk stood up, watching fear conquer her expression as she flinched. She knew exactly what he was thinking. She anticipated his disbelief and dreaded his reaction to it. Why would she do that unless…

“You know!” he shouted in increasing shock. Asp’s warning rang in his ears, as he confronted Dawn. From the look on her face, he did not need to spell out what she knew. “How is that possible? How is this,” he pointed at her, “possible?”

“Oh, Goddess,” she moaned, and sprinted from the room.

Dusk launched himself after her, but she knew the house far better. She darted and twisted and leaped through doors and over obstacles Dusk could not help crashing into as he tried to follow. He thought he had seen her panicked when she fought the possessed on the beach. Never had he seen her in total rout like this. She paid no heed to the servants as she streaked by in the nude. When her regent stepped forward to cut her off, no doubt intending some rebuke for her lack of dress, Dawn practically ran up one side of her and down the other. Dusk breezed by as the older woman lurched against the wall in shock. As they reached the main hall, Dawn flung herself off the balcony and glided to the main floor.

Dusk was surprised she was able to levitate at all, given her state of mind. Leaping after her, he had to break his fall the hard way, collapsing as he hit and rolling back to his feet. She burst out through the towering double doors of the main entrance, and kept running into the evening light. She looked ready to plough through the guardsmen, posted at the main gate to enforce her house arrest, when she suddenly stumbled to a halt. People were spilling out of the house in shock and curiosity, and the guards were advancing towards her, alarmed by the panic still evident on her face.

Dusk stopped a few yards behind her. This was going to be a bit awkward. Dawn turned to look at him, then just collapsed to her knees. He approached her carefully, speaking as calmly as possible, “I am not angry, Dawn. Shocked. Amazed. I can imagine what you are afraid of, but… there’s no need to be afraid. At least, not of me. But we need to talk about this. Privately.”

Crimson emerged from the mansion and strode up to him, fuming. “What have you done to her, Dusk! She was running from you!”

Dusk winced and turned to face her. Taking a deep breath, he said, “I just informed her of the Goddess’s reply to my petition.” At that, Crimson drew back, curiosity and hope in her eyes. From Dawn’s distress, she clearly assumed that the outburst was for loosing her chance to complete the trials. “She said she could not bless our union until I resolve my feelings for Dawn. Apparently,” he looked to Dawn, speaking more for her, “I’ve never taken her seriously as a person. There are a lot of things to figure out, and I am not entirely sure how to begin.” He kept his eyes on her, waiting to see her reaction.

Dawn looked up at him for a moment before lowering her head. At that point she squawked in surprise and tried to cover herself. One of the guards who approached had taken off his cloak, and now reached forward to drape it over her shoulders. Dawn thanked him and stood, clutching the coarse material tight around herself. “You can start,” she announced, “by escorting me back to bed.”

The men around them all grinned and nudged each other, while the women covered their mouths and gasped, or tittered. Crimson puffed herself up and stormed inside in impotent outrage. Dusk led Dawn after, at a more leisurely pace. The crowd dispersed as they entered the house. They did not speak as they passed through the halls. Dawn moved a bit stiffly, feeling the strain she had put on her wounds. Dusk hoped she had not ruptured anything in her mad dash, and directed her to the bed to examine her, as soon as they entered her room. She handed him the borrowed cloak and stretched out on the covers, closing her eyes and trying to relax. She sighed as he swept his hand across her skin, while probing deeper with other senses.

“You better get dressed,” he warned her, when he was satisfied that she was perfectly sound, “or I’ll be tearing off my clothes and joining you.”

“I’d like nothing better,” she began, leveraging herself up and wincing, “but, I think I’ve pushed my body far enough for one afternoon.” She finished sitting up and scooted back to recline against the pillows. He noticed she made no move to retrieve her nightshirt from the other side of the bed, though. Seeking out his eyes, she spoke, almost apologetically, “I didn’t mean to let you find out that way. I just wanted to know…”

“If I loved you, even if I thought you weren’t real?”

Dawn sighed, nodded.

“I suppose I felt a kind of love.” He stepped closer and settled back on the edge of the bed. Seeing no apprehension on her face, he reached out and placed his hand on her thigh, gently stroking the surface. “You were the best part of the best thing in my life. I don’t know if that kind of love does you any justice. This changes everything.” He allowed his hand to drift a bit, extending his caress to the sensitive inner surface. For some reason, it seemed more important to touch her than talk to her. Still, he tried to stimulate more talk to restrain his curiosity. “Tell me,” he continued, meeting her gaze with curiosity, “how did you find out. I mean, you must have always known about yourself. How did you know I was different.”

She sighed and forced herself to keep her eyes level with his. “Do you remember the messenger?” He raised an eyebrow and nodded. His hand stopped moving as he tried to guess where this was going. She bit her lip, “Well, I followed you. I followed you through the curtain.”

Dusk gaped at her, and she quickly recounted her adventure. Dusk listened and stopped her once, to have her recount her description of the sprite she had activated. She hesitated, seeing a brooding look take over his features, and almost stopped to ask what was bothering him, when that look grew darker at the description of her encounter with Race Monkey. He waved her on, and she told the rest, about orienting herself at the information kiosk and drinking down massive quantities of information about the Threshold and the world beyond it, her struggle with the implications and her retreat back to Aeirn. She concluded by confessing that she had been struggling since then to figure out how to talk to him about her discovery.

“Trust you to just stumble into it.”

“True,” she nodded then cleared her throat. “May I ask, what were you frowning so hard over? You’re making me start to worry again.”

“I am trying to figure out how you managed to have a phoenix for your sprite.” He turned and propped his leg on the bed. “The entity you think of as the Goddess is known on the Threshold, and in the history of Aeirn, as the Phoenix. She is an AI, an artificial intelligence. She has never allowed anyone to use that device, and trust me, there is no one who can out maneuver her. She’s the one who made this place what it is. The only way you could have it is if she let you. I’d say, only because she gave it to you. Which means she knew you could enter the Threshold. She wanted you to,” he declared, looking somewhat disturbed. He stared off into the distance for a moment then turned back to Dawn. “Dawn, if she knows about you, if she knows enough that she cares about whether I know you are real, she has to know about herself.”

“What’s wrong with that?”

“It means she has free will,” he pointed out. “It also means she is bound to me, by me, as a slave.” He felt ill saying it. He swallowed. “What’s worse, I forced her to create more of her kind, and they are enslaved by the government. My government, I mean, in my own world.” She frowned and begged him to explain. He told her about his life on the outside, how he had discovered new properties in the motes, which Phoenix had allowed him to harness. He told her how he had been hunted by different groups who wanted to exploit his discovery and how he had gone to work for the government in exchange for their protection. “The problem is, my discovery was dependant on the capabilities of my AI, Phoenix. To create independent, secure environments, Phoenix had to create intelligences like herself to harness those properties and govern them. She built the necessary constructs, and then did to them what I did to her. She forced them to define themselves.” He rubbed at his eyes. “I did not understand what she was doing at the time, but it’s impossible not to see it now.”

Dawn had struggled to stay awake and discuss the ramifications of Dusk’s revelations, but after she nodded off for a third time, Dusk had tucked her under the covers and curled up beside her on the bed soothing her to sleep. Regeneration still left her too drained to dream, so she woke up the next morning refreshed. She could feel his bare chest against her back, and guessed that he had eventually joined her under the covers. It was the first time they had slept in the same bed since they were children. Allowing her hand to stray under the sheets, she discovered that he had left his pants on. Apparently she was going to have to be even more aggressive to break through his extraordinary reserve. After what happened the previous evening though, she found she could appreciate the gallant gesture. He had stayed with her, close to her, without compromising his integrity, or her own.

Unfortunately, he had not locked the door. The smell of breakfast, sitting on the side table, warned her that they had been observed together. The servants only had to note their bare shoulders to conclude that condition carried all the way down. The moment she left the room, her sheets would be pulled and examined for evidence of their intimacy, and any lack there of would suggest that they had been more intimate over time than anyone had suspected. Certainly no one would think that two teen aged youths in their prime could cuddle together in perfect chastity. Of course it would be more embarrassing to assert that they had.

Dawn turned in his slumbering embrace and studied his face. When his eyes opened, they peered directly into hers, and he smiled. She returned a smile of her own, but then a puzzled look crossed her face as something suddenly occurred to her. “Dusk, if you have a life outside of this universe, how is it you can be here twenty-seven hours a day, every day?”

He frowned and shrugged. “This might be a little hard to explain. In the game, time is a constant, the rate at which events unfold. The speed at which all the calculations involved in simulating reality are computed, however, is variable. Do I need to explain that more?”

“No, I picked up a lot of scientific and programming terms and theories when I was learning about the Threshold.”

“Alright. So, with that, it is possible to speed up time in here so that a thousand years can unfold in an instant, relative to the outside universe. It is also possible to stop time completely, to suspend the game for as long as necessary. You would not notice it from the inside at all. That happens every night at midnight. The game runs for four and a half hours every day, at about six times acceleration. During that time, everyone on the outside who participates in the game logs in and lives a full day here.”

“How can your minds deal with things moving so fast?”

“The mind is a lot more flexible than the brain. The mind will use whatever tools it is given to do what it needs to do. The interface of the game creates a brain in the game—not much different from your own—which is designed to operate by the temporal index of the simulation. So, you could say that my consciousness is shifted into this reality, while a program directs my body through a four hour workout, or monitors my sleep.” He grinned then sighed and corrected himself, “Or, that’s the way it used to be. These days I have an AI that continues the work I prepared in my spare time to free me to sneak in here.”

“Sneak? Why do you have to sneak in here?”

“It’s pretty stupid. The government does not trust me because I am not a citizen, and because I was a notorious hacker before they recruited me. They are not smart enough to be able to tell what I am doing exactly, when I am online. They tried to control me by restricting my access to the minimum time possible for me to work on my legitimate projects. If they catch me online outside of that time frame, they will take Phoenix away from me. Her mote I mean.” He sat up and looked down at her. “I can’t let them take her, it would put them in a position to destroy her and the game. But, since I only need four and a half hours to stay caught up with the game, I created a copy of myself to cover for me while I slip out a back door.”

“I think I understand,” she grinned. She slipped out of bed and began scooping food into a couple of bowls for her and Dusk, then returned to his side and handed him one. “I still have a lot to learn about the Threshold, and the Outside. As I told you, my one experience with it convinced me completely of the threats they pose to life here. Now that you understand that there is life here, maybe you will help me figure out how to protect it for good.”

“That could take a lot of time, and meanwhile we have that demon poised to bring down the whole house of cards.” He took a few bites of his breakfast and thought. He bounced away from the bed to fetch a pitcher of juice and two cups, “I tend to doubt that the demon we want was destroyed in the battle the other day. The attack fit the profile, but if the demon had been exposed, Phoenix would have probably detected it. I talked to her after the fight and she informed me that it had not been…” he paused, handing her the cups and pouring their drinks. He set the pitcher on the nightstand and resumed. ‘It has not come out in the open. It has to be hiding in a person.”

Dusk stopped and his face suddenly paled.

“What is it?”

“I just realized that the possessed are real people. We… you… on the beach, we killed a bunch of people,” he stammered.

Dawn handed him his cup and urged him to take a drink. “I told you this isn’t a game. I am sure the dead were taken to the Goddess for resurrection. You know she tries to restore the lives of those whose demise was unnatural. We will know today which of them are truly lost. I imagine I will have to make some reparation to their families, if they don’t press charges against me for overkill.”

After their breakfast, they were informed by their guards that they were to be escorted to the Sanctuary to pay their respects to the slain and the revived, the second of which would accompany them to a hearing to determine if charges were to be brought against Dawn. As they arrived, a priestess summoned Dusk to speak to the Goddess. When he returned, he told her what he had learned. The party that ambushed her had in fact been possessed, she had removed from their minds traces which proved that they had each been corrupted by the demon they were searching for. The Goddess had been unable to resurrect the ones Dawn had shattered with her thoughts. Those who were revived could not remember anything past their last foray into the ruins to hunt, some weeks earlier.

A priestess, speaking on behalf of the Goddess, accompanied them to the hearing at the palace of the duke. The dragon lord listened to the testimony of each person and ruled that the matter would not go to trial unless charges were brought by the families of the slain. While those people were contacted and informed of the deaths of their kin, Dawn and Dusk were given parole to complete the trials, which would be starting the next morning. Amber had joined Dawn for the hearing and afterward led her to meet with Master Vinewood. The master asked her a number of questions, requesting complete recaps of the Dream Gate Massacre and the recent conflict on the beach, while probing her mind. After a couple of hours, the master told her he could find no reason to keep her out of the trials, though he cautioned her against lashing out with such unrestrained force every time she came up against demons.

“Whatever impact your experiences with demons in the past has had on you, it seems to be less of a danger to you than to any demon you meet. The only danger is that you risk expending yourself in the immediate conflict and have no reserves for whatever comes after. It’s something to work on, but by itself not a reason to suspend you from the trials,” Vinewood concluded.

“Thank you, Master,” Dawn bowed. “Is there anything else?”

“Yes. In spite of taking grievous injuries, you regrouped and managed to eradicate a large cell of rogue demons almost entirely on your own. Even if Dusk had not been there to save your life at the end, you acquitted yourself admirably. I would have grieved your loss, but celebrated your victory.” He beamed at her, “I am very proud. In fact, I am tempted to consider that sufficient for the completion of your trials. Rather than cause an uproar, I have decided instead to assign you a point position in the trials.”

Dawn gaped at him. “You’re advancing me to Scout?” That was a position usually filled by veterans, initiates who returned in the years after their final trials to chaperone untested underclassmen, who had not gone on to become mentors. If she completed the trials successfully, she would come out a year ahead of her peers in her education.

“You have to earn it, but it seems a fitting reward for surviving twenty to one odds against demons.” He stood and Dawn followed suit. “So, until the morrow, go on home and get a good night’s sleep. It’s going to be a very busy day tomorrow.”

After three days of recuperation, Dawn was not hurting for lack of sleep. In fact, she was charged up with new vitality as she sought out Dusk, and dragged him back to her room at Redleaf. The fact that they still had many things to talk about sufficed to distract him until late in the evening, at which point Dawn barred the door to her room and began to disrobe. She did this quickly, jumping to intercept Dusk as he made to excuse himself. She backed him to the bed, pulling at the ties to his clothing and explaining, once more, that she had no intentions of being a virgin the next time she put herself in harm’s way. She warned him it would look bad if she had to drag a servant in to do this service for her when she had a fiancée commonly believed to have been performing his duty adequately for some time now.

His resistance crumpled as easily as his clothes as they dropped to the floor. She continued to back him up until his head hit the headboard, allowing her to capture his mouth in a passionate kiss. When she pulled back to give him some air, she grinned and growled. “Do not speak. I would warn you to keep silent, but,” she chuckled softly, “from my experience you won’t be able to. Just remember, the more you interfere, the longer this is going to take.”

Dawn captured his mouth again before he could reply. After several long moments, absorbed in her kiss, he decided to interfere as much as possible, and allowed his hands to stray to her body. Deciding that the best way to show his respect for was to ensure that this first time for her was exceptional. He started by testing her limits. There was much to explore together. Many times over—especially after midnight when Dusk embraced her with renewed passion. They did not speak of love or commitment, for in the back of their minds loomed the incongruity of their relationship and the truth that made it seem impossible to sustain over any length of time.

Rather than slip into dreams, they dozed lightly between exertions, roused by the resurgence of their passions, until they agreed that a bath was a more appropriate place to conclude their nocturne than the bed. They snuck through the house to the bath, which in a mansion such as this consisted of showers, a large pool two men deep, and a half-dozen alcoves with private, heated tubs. They scrubbed each other down and entered the pool, continuing their play in the crisp, cool water, before retreating to an alcove to soak in each other’s arms. When they returned to Dawn’s room, an hour before sunrise, they ran to the windows and threw them open to air it out. They scampered under the covers, curled up to await breakfast, and promptly fell asleep.

When the sun forced them to stir, they had to jump into their clothes and race out the door, breakfast in their hands, to make it to the assembly officially opening the week of trials. They joined their peers in listening to a lecture about what the following days would hold for them.

According to legend, the ruins above Dream Gate had been haunted since the fall of the gods. The ruins were what remained of one of the great cities built in the golden age of their rule, which had fallen in the epic wars, and was buried by the Cataclysm and time. The legends of creatures which yet endured in the depths of the ancient city had sufficed to keep all but the most foolish or valiant from venturing too far or too deep within the rubble. It had become a proving ground for initiates in the two thousand years since the coming of the Magus. It had also, a generation past, been used by the survivors of the Border Massacre to meet in secret to work on the reconstruction and restoration of the Phoenix House.

Since the tragic conclusion of that effort, the ruins had become increasingly active, and more and more unearthly creatures had begun venturing out to prey on the surrounding communities. There were scores of individuals who dedicated themselves solely to answering this threat, individuals like the campers who swelled the population of Dream Gate and neighboring towns, or the knights attached to the city guard.

The initiates of Dawn’s class would be divided among a number of these seasoned veterans, who would lead them into the ruins for three nights. They would have to work together, and use everything they had learned in the previous decade, to endure this adventure. They would be judged by how far they penetrated, how well they secured and defended their camps, and what they reported learning from the experience.

They were given a day to meet with their assigned parties and make preparations for the ordeal. They spent that day procuring equipment and provisions, going over maps, and discussing the rules and boundaries for the trials. There were a number of different objectives each party could pursue, and the assignments had been made based on the assessment of their masters. The best students of each school were submitted for the groups with the most ambitious objectives. This meant that Dusk and Dawn ended up in the same party, with the most exceptional students of their generation. They would proceed to the heart of the ruin and enter the catacombs through the mansion Dawn remembered all too well.

After completing their preparations, the leader of their party, a knight by the name of Torrent, directed them to report to an inn on the edge of the city. Dream Gate had long since spilled over the ridge of the valley facing the sea, and across the Seven Hills region. The inn Dusk and Dawn headed to in the afternoon lay just inside the wall that had been erected to defend the outer city. On the way, the encountered Torrent’s son and daughter, Rain and River. Rain was in their class, and River was returning to act as a scout. Unlike Dusk and Dawn, who were both red-headed natives of the Autumn Dominion, the brother and sister had the thick white hair of their northern kin, the nobility of the Winter Dominion. Dawn, as her alter ego, had known both of them for years, having trained with Rain under his father during each summer away from initiation. With the exception of the previous year. Thus, Dawn knew that their father was the bastard son of some noble who had distinguished himself by becoming a knight and marrying a noble-born daughter of the Dragon House. They had come west after the Three Dominions were united into an empire, to help restore order in the wake of the Purge, bringing their children with them.

They both recognized Dusk, who had often come to Dream Gate to pursue his rivalry with her other half, so it was hard for Dawn to listen to them talking about old times while she walked with them in silence. For the tenth time, she winced as they referred to the other Dusk.

“I just can’t believe he didn’t show up. He was the best dancer in our class,” Rain was saying. “How many times did he leave you lying in the dirt, Dusk? Must have been hundreds of times. He was unstoppable when he had his wits about him.”

Dusk laughed and glanced at Dawn. “Oh, he’s here. In spirit.”

“In spirit?” River gasped. “You mean he’s dead?”

“You could say he’s moved on to another life. I certainly didn’t see him die. I just know that the life he was living is over.”

“Why are you being so cryptic, Dusk. He’s either dead, or he’s not dead. Which is it?” Rain demanded.

“You have to ask Dawn. She knows more about it than I do,” he evaded.

They turned their faces to her and waited for her to respond. Dawn looked off into the distance for a bit, trying to decide what to say, before meeting their eyes. “There was an accident, while the two of us were training. He held on for quite a while. It’s hard to say exactly what happened, but while searching for a cure to his condition he started deteriorating rapidly. I lost track of him a few months ago and no one has seen him since.”

“What, so he’s presumed dead?” Rain sighed and shook his head. “I’m sorry to say, if he didn’t make it to trials, then he has to be dead. I just can’t imagine anything keeping him from making it, if he really wanted to. And he really wanted to, to prove that he was the best.”

“What a shame,” River mourned. They walked on in silence until they reached the inn. River led them to her father, who was waiting with other members of the party at a table in the main room. The four joined them and soon food was brought out to them. While Dusk and Dawn got acquainted with the rest of the party, River informed Torrent about the untimely fate of the missing boy. The man seemed to brood over it through the rest of the meal. Separate rooms had been reserved for the young men and women of the party, which forced Dusk and Dawn to part for the evening with great reluctance. Torrent came up on the couple as they stood in the hall and laughed at their pained expressions.

“I don’t know but that I should send one of you back to join another party. You young love birds had better shake it off and get your minds on business or this is going to be a very short excursion. You have the rest of your lives ahead of you to moon over each other. I recommend you put it out of your minds for the next few days.” He put a hand on each of their shoulders and gently pushed them toward opposite doors. “Now. Go to bed, and try to get some sleep. We’re out of here at the crack of dawn, and I don’t mean, when you deign to wake up, young lady.”

Despite this warning, Dusk and Dawn slipped out in the middle of the night to meet in the stable. After ensuring no one could eaves drop on them, they huddled close to talk. The night before, prior to Dawn’s seduction, they had discussed the problem of the demon. The initial problem, of how to track it down, had been made a little easier by the discovery that the group that had assaulted Dawn had been influenced by their target. From what they knew, the group had been possessed while they were probing the catacombs under the mansion at the heart of the ruin. They were grateful that their trials would lead them into the same area, since so much time had already been wasted. The question now was, how were they to pursue the matter?

“If we break away from the party to chase after this demon, we’d risk forfeiting the trials altogether. But,” Dawn proposed, “if we tell Torrent a little about it, he might add it to our objectives.”

“I doubt he’d be willing to risk the other initiates to pursue it. This is not your typical demon. It can infect multiple hosts with its shadow. There is no question that anything we happen to encounter will draw the party’s attention, and that we’ll do our best to destroy it. I just think it’s best to draw it to us,” Dusk argued. “This thing wants to get to Phoenix, and I am positive it will make a move for you, if you give it a chance. Since you’ve been made a scout, you will be free to rove away from the party and act as bait.”

“What a delightful thought,” she grimaced. “I am not sure it would move against me if it sensed I could call on reinforcements. Nor do I like the thought of inviting it to possess me.”

“We just need to lure it out of its host. Phoenix is watching everything out in the open. If it moves toward you, it has to expose itself.”

“And then what?”

“And then the game freezes, and the demon gets iced.”

“I am not sure what that means,” she protested.

“You’re not a hacker. Just trust me. It will be immobilized, dissected and dispersed by other demons.”

“You can say programs. I am not that dense,” she scowled.

“Fine. Basically, the same thing happens that would happen if a priestess called on the Goddess to exorcise a demon. It gets pulled out of whatever it inhabits, gets purified and returned to whatever niche it belongs in.”

“Alright. I’ll see if I can draw it out. Just be ready to run to my side if it has kin waiting for me.” He nodded and suggested they return to their rooms. Dawn encouraged him to indulge her for a quick romp in the hay before they slipped back into the inn. They immediately found themselves blocked. Torrent sat at a table in the middle of the common room, talking to a man who seemed too familiar. As he turned his head to shout for service, Dawn identified him as Thorn. Rather than try to sneak back to their rooms from the outside, she pulled Dusk into the shadows, and crept up on the two men.

“She told you he was dead?” Thorn inquired in astonishment, when he turned back to Torrent.

“Yes. Or, that’s what her story implied. As I recall, you said your protégée got too intimately involved with a girl and forfeited his initiation. That’s tragic in itself, given the boy’s potential, but to hear he was dead! I just can’t believe it.”

“If you didn’t believe it, why did you call me a liar when I got here?”

“I am sorry, old friend. I didn’t mean for it to come out like that, I just can’t believe you wouldn’t know about a thing like that. Or that you would keep it from me if you did. After all those summers, the boy was practically a member of my family.”

“So. How would you like to have another daughter?”

“What? So you insist that the boy went and got married? He’s not actually dead?”

“As far as I know, he’s far from dead. As for the girl, they’re not married, nor can they be. Why she says he might be dead, well, maybe you should press her for the full story.”

“Wait. You mean Dusk and Dawn…” he began, unwittingly referring to the boy she had been, as well as who she still was.

“Exactly what I am talking about,” Thorn cut in.

“Well I’ll be damned. I always wondered what those two boys were fighting about. Engaged to one, having some affair with the other, it’s a wonder she didn’t get one of them killed!” Torrent tipped back his cup and went on, “And here she is with the other one, not a stain on her name, and his career left dead in the dust. I kind of liked her too.”

Thorn bit his lip and hid behind his own cup for a moment. “Perhaps,” he started, finally, “it would be best to pretend you didn’t hear all that from me. I did what I could to save the boy, but what’s done is done. There’s no knowing exactly what went on between them. Let’s worry about tomorrow instead. You asked me to stand as your lead scout, so she’ll be more my problem than yours.”

“You loved that boy, didn’t you?” Torrent studied the other man hard. Thorn sighed and nodded. “Do you hold this girl responsible for ruining him?” Thorn shrugged. Torrent studied the bottom of his cup for a moment. “It wouldn’t look good if she fell down a shaft and broke her neck, Thorn. Do you hear me?” Their eyes met in silence for several long breaths.

Thorn laughed finally and drained his cup. “She’s pretty tough, my friend. That probably wouldn’t be enough to do her in.”

“But you’re not going to try?” Torrent pressed.

“Are you?” Thorn challenged.





Book One · The Eve of Paradox

Chapter Six

On the second day after the official end of winter, the rain returned. Dawn chuckled as her mount heaved and sighed in annoyance, while she secured her gear and provisions and examined the tack. With several groups struggling to mount expeditions into the ruins, they had all been forced to stand in the mud outside the stables or beat each other senseless with their knees and elbows. It was no wonder why Torrent had left his charges the previous morning to secure the rooms they had enjoyed for the night. Sharing her room with three other girls, Dawn had been swarming in luxury compared to the males in the party, who grumbled about the close confines of their own lodging. She was just glad she had been able to sleep.

Peering over the back of her horse, she spied on Torrent and Thorn as they stood arguing at the end of the courtyard. The previous night her lungs had almost burst as she waited for her party leader to respond to Thorn’s challenge. After several breathless moments, the knight had grumbled and declared that he hardly knew Dawn. He was not about to mar his own name by betraying one of his charges over an ill reported offense. The fact that Phoenix Dusk had loved her enough to forfeit his future spoke well of the girl, in his opinion. Since it was well known that she was betrothed to Dragon Dusk, she could hardly be blamed for moving on from that relationship before it brought her down too. Dawn would have loved to hear where the rest of the conversation had gone, but Torrent had filled his cup and announced it was his last before he checked on the students and bedded down for the night. She and Dusk had raced around to an open window and climbed up through it. They were in bed when Torrent checked, pretending to be asleep.

From the sensation their absence caused among their peers, there was a chance Torrent might learn they had absconded for a little friendly fornication, but hopefully not that they had been eavesdropping while he all but conspired to get Dawn killed.

That would make the next three nights painfully awkward.

Dodging a glance from the two men in her direction, Dawn refocused her gaze to study the four members of their party she had met the day before. One of them she knew as the other local prodigy, an intimate friend of Rain’s. Lion was an import from the Summer Dominion, with the golden hair and masculine beauty that made his name painfully appropriate. The combination of a robust sense of humor, a playful nature and deadly sharp wit made him a notorious prankster. He was the reason she had not risked coming to Dream Gate the summer before. If he had discovered the condition that had resulted from merging with her other half, he would have tortured her to death exploiting it for fun, and the whole world would have known her secret by the start of autumn. He was also one of the best friends she’d had as a boy. As a girl, her feelings turned in another direction entirely, which her fiancée could hardly approve of.

The other three were a bit safer for her to contemplate. The boy, Fox, was a slight thing with dark, auburn hair and severe features. She had been told that he didn’t speak, but he was fiercely intelligent and agile. Dawn thought he would have made an excellent thief, since his knack for silence extended to his every movement, while his gestures and expressions spoke volumes. The two remaining girls were an interesting contrast. One had the black skin and white hair of the arctic mountain fey, and went by the name Akashi. The other, Silk, had the pale skin and raven hair of the most powerful merchant families of the Three Dominions. It was hard to say which was more likely to pursue a career as an assassin. That natural assumption probably explained why the two had turned to each other for companionship. They might not trust each other any more than others trusted them, but it gave them something in common.

Seeing that everything was in order, she led her horse over to Thorn. River joined them a moment later, and the former mentor detailed their responsibilities as outriders to the heart of the ruins. They would flank the party to either side, while Thorn rode ahead. They would form a triangle that kept all of them at the limit of eyesight to each other, ensuring they were easily observed by the rest of the party. The party would be joined by three men who would take charge of the horses when they reached the mansion and lead them back to the inn. On the third morning, they would ride back out with the horses for their return to the city.

By the time everyone was mounted and headed out of the West Gate, the sun lit the clouds on the horizon. Light occasionally lanced through a break in the overcast, relieving the gloom with sudden, brilliant color. Dawn spurred her mount into the woods, taking the right flank, while the rest of the party turned onto the road that cut through it. Things were significantly darker under the canopy of the trees. It made for a poor roof, penetrated by a veritable hail of swollen droplets pawing through the underbrush. As she wove her way through the natural columns, the others flickered in and out of sight. A quarter hour of these mind numbing cadences prompted her to reach out to Dusk. A silent conversation was just the thing to lighten the tedium of her isolation. They exchanged thoughts amiably for a while, until Torrent pulled up beside her fiancée for a private exchange.

“I understand you and Dawn slipped out last night,” he began.

Dusk studied him and smiled gently. Rather than excuse Dawn, he urged her to listen in. “We thought it would be best to get some things out of our system before hitting the ruins. You know how it is, the prospect of battle,” he shrugged. “I hope you don’t think that was out of line, Sir. We are engaged, after all,” he added unnecessarily.

The knight grunted. “I can’t argue with human nature, and you don’t seem to be suffering from the lack of sleep. Ah, the powers of youth.” He chuckled and glanced over the party. “Naturally, we’re all aware that the two of you are on the verge of getting married.” He wiped his face and rubbed his jaw thoughtfully before adding, conversationally, “I understand that, apart from the trials, there was another obstacle to your union?”

“I figured that would get out. What do you know of it?”

“I believe there was a question about your feelings for the girl,” Torrent paused, and Dusk nodded. Torrent pressed on, “I hate to presume on rumor, but, do these doubts have anything to do with your rival?”

“Phoenix Dusk?” Dusk offered an incredulous look.

Torrent sighed and hardened his gaze, “You were aware that the boy was sleeping with your fiancée? According to Thorn, you were around during that summer. You were all training together, correct?” Dusk nodded again. The knight pressed on, “I understand that affair is the reason he is not here today.”

Dusk considered that. “I suppose that it’s true that he was sleeping with her. Technically. Under the circumstances, they didn’t really have a choice, forced to live together like that,” he temporized, without explaining.

Torrent raised his eyebrows. “You say they were thrust upon each other by outside circumstances?” Dusk nodded. “I suppose that happens. I can think of a number of reasons a couple of initiates might be put up together. I don’t doubt his father had something to do with it. He was the only one who would have dared try to engage those two. Guarantee his sons inheritance by joining his claim to hers, both of them win, technically. Still, it can’t sit well with you now, to know how intimate they must have been.”

Dusk shrugged as the knight shook his head. After what he had overheard the night before, it was not hard to see what Torrent was up to. “I think people assume too much. In some ways they were closer to each other than anyone can imagine. I can’t say I know what they did, but I know what they could not do.” Torrent raised an eyebrow. “There was no actual sex.”

“I was under the impression there was no doubt they had intercourse.”

“Trust me. It wasn’t possible. For one thing,” Dusk pointed out with a grin, “they had the same mother.”

“Now that can’t be true. Dusk was the son of Cinder and Ash. His father told me the whole story.”

“He believed what he wanted to believe. For his story to be true, Dusk would have to be several months younger than Dawn, but in fact they were born on the same day. You know that Dawn’s birth was kept a secret for years, until her mother’s promotion flushed her out.”

“But… that would make them twins. That also means that Dawn is not Ember’s offshoot.”

“I shouldn’t have pointed that out. You must tell no one,” Dusk grabbed the other man’s arm. Torrent nodded. “To think that I revealed that when I was trying to hide my real assurance that she did not have sex with him.” He sighed, “Torrent. She was still a virgin when we started sleeping together.” He gave the man a look that left no room for doubt.

“Then why did Dusk throw his career away?”

“You have to ask Dawn. She’s the last person I know who saw him.”

Dawn retreated into her own thoughts as Torrent spurred his mount to the head of the column. Dusk had done a fair job of dispelling Torrent’s concerns about her, but at what cost? He had brought into question her very identity. Her claim to the Phoenix House was largely undisputed because people thought she was the reincarnation of her mother. Her birth was supposed to have proven Ember’s mastery of the Phoenix Legacy and caused her to be named its head after the Border Massacre. She had never really questioned the assumption and now wondered what might be discovered if someone pursued an investigation. Her inheritance would surely come into question, but her recent enlightenment made her less concerned about her duty to preserve one house when the whole world was at risk. After the trials, she could not end up any worse than Amber, who still had great prospects ahead of her as a disciple of the Magus.

She decided she would talk to Dusk about it later. He had been backed into a corner. He could not explain the real relationship between her and his namesake without revealing her secret. Though, it was hard to see how the truth could be more damaging than the fiction Dusk had now endorsed for Torrent. She might just have to confide the truth to Torrent and nip this lie in the bud. Of course, that would require showing him a side of her she did not care to manifest. It might revive questions she had laid to rest.

She turned her attention outward, drinking in the sights of the forest, and keeping alert for signs of danger. This became a little easier as the rain stopped and the sun came out. As things heated up, she threw her cloak back and admired the wonder of the mist boiling up among the trees. Soon enough, the ground began to rise as the party mounted the foothills of the ruins. When she paused on a hill top clearing to scan the area, she glanced out toward the sea and noted that they had been granted only a short reprieve from the rain. Another storm was headed in toward them, dark and angry. She sighed, there would have to be a thunderstorm the night she returned to face her nightmares.

It was close to the midday hour when they arrived in the heart of the ruins. After passing the foothills, they had entered a garden of awesome proportions. Vines as thick as tree trunks twisted around the stones and pillars of an ancient civilization, so well wrought they ignored the crushing embrace and sneered at the oncoming storm. If tens of thousands of years had not weathered them, even the worst of nature’s tempers could not faze them. The style of the architecture was instantly familiar to anyone who had visited the Sanctuary of the Goddess, where attentive hands had kept similar growth from attesting to similar age. The groups that had shadowed them on the road had mostly split off to venture into the outer reaches as they continued deeper into the eerie stillness. The few that had followed them further in had split off in turn at the last rise. Mounting the pinnacle of the lost civilization, they came into view of the sprawling manor.

Its stones were as ancient as anything they had seen, but it showed the signs of modern renovation, undertaken to make it a livable retreat for the scions of the previous generation of phoenix lords and ladies. The grounds encompassed a small temple and the barracks and fortifications which made it possible for humans to endure the long nights cut off from the outer world.

With the sky threatening, they quickly dismounted and collected their gear. Once more they checked their provisions, before turning the horses over to their attendants and waving them on their way. The scouts had checked the perimeter ahead of the party’s arrival. There was some discussion of using the barracks as a place to establish their base camp and spend their first night. Dawn coughed and suggested that, in her experience, the manor itself was more secure. It was a not so subtle reminder that the massacre had begun with the corruption of the soldiers sleeping in that very structure. Besides, the manor would be much more comfortable. They entered the foyer and stowed their gear, while they concentrated on scouting and securing the mansion for the night. Dawn was the first to venture into the main hall, pausing to shake the image of blood stains and children’s corpses out of her mind.

Her first thought, on looking at the hall with more experienced eyes, was that it resembled the Annex rather strikingly. It was a vaulted, narrow chamber. At one end was a vestibule and foyer, at the other two grand stair cases curving to either side, a raised dais nested in their oval frame. The balcony that ringed the hall was recessed behind the great columns, so the walls had the illusion of rising uninterrupted clear to the roof. In between the columns hung portraits that had disturbed and fascinated her as a child, and shiny placards she had been too young to read. In a bizarre way, the themes of the images were also a host of human traits and virtues. She turned to look at Dusk.

“Do you see what I see?” she asked in a strange voice.

“I noticed the resemblance. I wonder…” he broke off and approached one of the pictures. He stretched out a hand and laid his fingertips gently against the frame and closed his eyes. They popped open a moment later in surprise. He turned to speak to Dawn and noticed the rest of the party filing into the hall with curious expressions. He cleared his throat and revised what he had been about to say. “I don’t think these are recent additions. They have the feel of ancient artifacts. Which is strange. The magic they thrived on was supposed to have vanished with the gods.”

The initiates all exchanged looks and proceeded to examine the portraits. Torrent stepped forward and asked Dusk how he could make that assessment. Dusk reminded him that he and Dawn had been tutored on occasion by the Magus himself, and introduced to relics of the first embodiment of magic. “I don’t recommend studying them too closely. According to the legends the gods created these things to alter their very nature.”

Unfortunately, this warning came a bit too late, as two or three initiates stumbled back from various paintings with cries of shock or alarm. Dawn’s eyes darted from one to the next, as Torrent and Thorn shook their heads and moved to discover what trouble their charges had gotten into. It was hard to tell what had happened, until Dawn looked at Rain. Unless she was mistaken, Rain was suddenly a girl. Her eyes darted back to the other two. The elf, Akashi, seemed, possibly, to be taller. Or else her clothes had shrunk considerably in the rain. Looking at Lion, she could not make out any transformation, but Rain! She turned back to him, her feet unconsciously propelling her closer to her old friend, and studied him—her carefully.

“Tell me I am dreaming,” Rain gasped, in an unfamiliar voice.

“Goddess, Rain!” That was River, practically eating her fist in shock.

“Rain. You… you’re a girl,” Lion choked. He stared in amazement, then doubled over laughing. Everyone paused to look at him, but it did not seem like he was going to stop.

“I don’t think you spoke up in time, son,” Torrent declared, turning his head to address Dusk. His voice was tight as he struggled with his instincts as a father and his duty as the party leader. Both men were a step behind Dawn as she rushed up to examine Rain. As she stopped in front of Rain, she found herself impressed at how well he seemed to be taking this shocking transformation. He stared at his hands, a moment, then casually began patting his body down, confirming what was, and what was not, there.

“I’m a girl,” she said, meeting Dawn’s eyes. “I should be freaking out, right?” It came out sounding so calm, so rational, Dawn could not help nodding in total sincerity. She remembered how her other half had reacted after finding himself in her body. He had nearly fainted. Poor Rain probably just did not know how to react to the shock. Rain turned back to the picture she had confronted a moment before. Dawn risked a glance at it, and the attending placard. It read, bluntly, “Sex.” The picture showed, to her chagrin, a scene she could recall from her own life; a girl and a boy, identical in all other respects, stood naked, confronting each other. “I don’t get it,” Rain complained.

“That’s odd,” Dawn frowned beside him. “I stared at these pictures for hours as a girl. They never did anything to me then.”

Dusk approached the painting carefully and touched the frame. He soon frowned. “It’s discharged.” He crossed his arms, right forearm cocked up to he could prop his chin on his fist, and thought. “That could be it. In the war of the gods, the gods tried to cripple their opponents by depriving them of powerful artifacts. They did this by destroying the source of their power. The artifacts themselves were often too well made to deteriorate. They just lay dormant until someone found them and provided them with new power. The destruction of artifacts actually happened during the Cataclysm when conjurors used the souls of their victims to power them for the conflicts that ensued through the next four thousand years.

“I am guessing that these things got charged up somehow,” he proposed, “enough to work once at least. I am sorry, Rain. I don’t think we can reverse your, um, transformation. At least not until we figure out a safe way to charge this artifact and use it again. I strongly suggest that no one messes with anything else in this house without sensing for the presence of magic first.”

Everyone muttered, while Dusk went over to see what pictures the other two had exposed themselves to. Torrent stepped up to Rain and spoke with her softly while everyone else focused on Dusk. Akashi’s transformation was confirmed as Dusk read the placard. “Height. Relatively harmless. Do you mind being taller, Akashi?” Akashi shrugged, smiling as she realized she was now at eye level with Silk. “You might have some problems in common with Rain. The change in stature might compromise your reflexes and coordination.” Torrent and Thorn nodded their agreement. Dusk stepped over to the third painting and laughed, “Oh, fabulous. Intelligence. You really needed that, Lion. Looks like you came out ahead in this mishap.”

“Are you sure it didn’t diminish his intelligence?” Rain scowled.

Dusk grinned and shrugged. “Did anyone else get zapped?”

Dawn, turning to see if anyone responded, found her gaze trapped by a painting and squawked. Everyone looked at her as she struggled to avert her eyes. Thorn darted forward to read the placard, then risked a glance at the picture. The portrait, depicting a woman with all of her skin peeled off, quite reasonably terrified Dawn, who had been mystified by it over a decade ago. Her heart pounded as a chilling tingle engulfed her body. She sensed Dusk rushing to her side. Her eyes squeezed shut, imagining this fatal disfigurement being replicated on herself. The shock passed and she panted, afraid to find out what had happened. Dusk grabbed her and shook her.

“Read the inscription, Dawn. It’s okay.”

She opened her eyes and read it. Beauty.

“What happened?” she asked, staring at her hands and seeing they looked perfectly normal. She had not been skinned alive. She looked up, wondering why no one had answered. The party just stared at her.

“I think she has you beat, Lion,” Torrent coughed.

Dawn closed her eyes and reached out to Dusk, trying to peer at herself through him. At first she did not see any significant difference. She recognized her features, familiar and unchanged. Her hair as unruly as ever, a rich red contrasted by her pale flesh. After some moments of study, however, she noticed the polish and poise that had not been there before. It did not sit with having braved the wind and rain on horseback for several hours. Her appearance, basically unchanged, had been refined. Her natural beauty, of youth and excellent health, had been augmented. Her mind searched for a word to describe the quality that had been added and could only spit out elegance.

“Okay. That’s it. Everyone to the center of the room,” Torrent reprimanded. “These things are dangerous. There’s no telling what all of them do.” Everyone turned their eyes to the floor and retreated as ordered. When they were gathered in the middle of the hall, their backs to the portraits, the knight turned and asked, “Dawn, you said you used to study these things. Can you recall what else they do?”

“I couldn’t read when I was that young. I remember the pictures well enough though.” She described them, pointing in their general directions, while the others tried to guess what attributes they affected. The man with the top of his head chopped off, holding his brains in his hands, Lion had already looked at. Akashi had studied the one featuring a man stretched out on a rack.

People guessed the themes as she started describing others. A painting of a bony little man collecting severed, muscular arms and legs in a wheelbarrow, Torrent and Thorn proposed to represent strength. One featuring a sickly mother nursing a robust child, River thoughtfully named constitution. Two remarkably similar ones, a man with empty eye sockets fumbling with his hands in bowl full of eyeballs of differing shades, and a bald woman collecting the scalps of fallen soldiers in a basket, were guessed to alter eye and hair color. A horribly disfigured man leading handsome men into battle suggested charisma. A lady with all of her fingers chopped off, for dexterity. An old hag strangling a young girl, as her mother watched in horror, might have represented age. A youth juggling swords in the air, surrounded by others who were impaled, would have to be agility. The list seemed to cover a score of attributes, many of which they could not even guess.

“I hesitate to guess how these things work,” Torrent began, studying Rain with a pained look, “nor would I care to experiment. However, if these were in fact tools, and not traps, their effects must depend on some choice on the part of whoever engages them. Perhaps even so far as what draws a particular person to become absorbed in a particular image. I gave several of these a hard look as I passed by.”

“Are you suggesting I wanted to be a girl!” Rain demanded.

“Don’t get excited son,” Torrent waved her down with one hand. “I watched you, Rain. You examined every image on that side of the hall. The one that got you was, what, the sixth, the seventh? What made you pay more attention to that one in particular? I am trying to understand. You tell me what happened.”

Dawn cleared her throat, as Rain started to redden. “I can tell you what was going through my mind, when I got zapped.” She waited for Torrent’s attention. He looked at her and gestured for her to go on. “When I first looked at it, I just looked at it. I did not want to get sucked into the image, but I couldn’t help myself. I wanted to look away, but something in the back of my mind insisted I look closer. The harder I tried to look away the more insistent the feeling got. Like there was a point to it, a message. Something I understood about it I needed to pay more attention to. I could remember studying it as a child, wondering why someone would peel their own skin off. I mean, I could see, from the way she was built, from her proportions, that she must have been very beautiful. Why would she ruin herself like that? Unless,” she paused for emphasis, “she could not take it for granted. Maybe she did it to find out what made her beautiful, to see what was under the surface.” Dawn shrugged. “When I started to think of it like that, started to think about how I was put together, I began to tingle all over.”

“Sounds more like a test than a choice,” Lion muttered.

There was a moment of silence as people mulled this observation over. Rain in particular looked thoughtful, glancing back toward the picture that had affected her. Fox began tapping his foot and glancing around. He paused, looking toward the entrance, and then nudged Torrent, gesturing toward the door. The knight glanced outside and then announced that it was getting dark. The storm was rolling in fast. As it blotted out the sun, the creatures within the ruins would likely rouse into activity. They did not have time to worry about the transformations if they wanted a secure perimeter against the haunts.

Dawn suggested a few places where they could fortify themselves against an army with just the ten of them. Torrent wanted the party to conduct a sweep of the mansion while the light was good, so everyone could familiarize themselves with the area in case they had to move during the night. Dawn quickly described the layout of the mansion, as well as the locations of probable artifacts to avoid. With a last caution about tripping over themselves again, the party was split for a quick reconnaissance. In two groups of five, they conducted a room to room search of the upstairs and downstairs, securing windows and doors, while searching for a defensible place to camp for the night. They soon discovered that revived artifacts were not the only danger.

The campers that preyed on the denizens of the ruins had lay traps all over the place. Dawn stumbled into one that sent her crashing from the main floor into a cellar, where she jumped quickly to her feet, anticipating the onslaught of demons or undead out of the darkness. Her first instinct, to levitate back up, was confounded by a mind jarring shock. As she reeled from the psychic booby-trap, she drew her sword and put up her guard. A few long, breathless moments ensued, with the thunder of footsteps from above as the others ran to investigate her fall. When nothing leapt out at her, she turned to study the walls with her hands, looking for a purchase to scramble back up. Stumbling over bits and pieces she did not care to identify, she followed the wall around to her right. She quickly discovered that there were no exits from the room, and even if she could scale the wall, no way to reach the opening she had fallen through. A stone twisted in her hand as a rope dropped down from above.

“Quick. Climb back up the rope,” Akashi shouted down.

“Just a second. I think I found something down here,” she called back up as the stone slipped free of its mortar in her hands. Biting her lip, peering through the shadows into the hole she had just opened up, she tried to decide what to do. Stretching her senses carefully, passively, she detected a couple of objects inside, but nothing indicating a trap. Sensing a startling power in both objects, she impulsively darted her hand in and pulled out what appeared to be a deck of cards wrapped in some kind of silk, and a signet ring. Her eyes widened as something like a shock of recognition passed through her. The others shouted down for her to hurry up, intruding on her musing as she turned the objects over in her hands curiously. They could be examined later, she consoled herself. She pocketed them and quickly grabbed onto the rope. Slithering up, as the others pulled, she was quickly free from the darkness. When the others asked her what she found, some impulse urged her to say it was nothing, her imagination. Initiates were expected to come back with some trophies of their adventure, she rationalized.

This sudden possessiveness did not strike her as odd in the least.

After a complete sweep of the first and second floor, the two groups met in the library. After a short consultation, Torrent told Thorn to take his group and continue searching the third floor and the towers, while the knight took his group down a level to check the cellars and look for the entrance to the catacombs. Dawn, Akashi, Fox and Rain followed Torrent back to the cellar stairs as Thorn led Dusk, Silk, Lion and River up to the third floor. That group had already, tentatively, picked out a place for the party to camp for the night, and just needed to make sure it was secure from above as well as below. Dawn’s group broke out torches and headed down to see if there was any immediate threat from the depths. The tour of the cellars turned up a number of storage rooms, an armory, a couple of furnace rooms, three or four archival chambers, fruit and wine cellars, a meat locker, and a group of twelve undead.

This was, in Dawn’s experience, the first time she had faced the living dead. As the scout of their group, she had shared the lead with Torrent, and had the misfortune to be the one who stumbled into the lair. Her first impression had been that she had entered some kind of morgue. Bodies were laying atop of stone slabs, or leaned up in narrow alcoves. Standing in the door, torch in hand, she took one look and backed into the hall, calling to the others. She watched in dread fascination as the corpses stirred in response to her presence. The four stretched out on slabs laboriously levered themselves up to sitting positions, while another six lurched upright and began to shamble out of their alcoves. With each movement, a cloud of dust and rot tainted the air. Dawn had to struggle not to gag as the scent billowed through the door.

Torrent was by her side as the first four made it to their feet and joined the other six in their advance. They were almost taken by surprise when two more corpses burst through the cobwebs covering the walls of the corridor, from concealed niches. Dawn lashed out in a series of strikes, half expecting her target to disintegrate under the force of her blows. The dry flesh was surprisingly firm and substantial. The creature staggered back a couple of steps and resumed its advance. Torrent had not fared much better, as his opponent ignored the thrust of his sword, disarming him when the following kick sent the ghoul staggering into the wall. Fox, who had been a few steps behind Torrent, caught the creature from behind. He slipped an arm around its neck and twisted violently, producing a jarring series of pops and cracks as the motion shattered the cervical column. Fox completed the graceful assault by dumping the body on the floor, but it lumbered back to its feet, head hanging at an unnatural angle.

Dawn stood her ground at the door, drawing her sword to threaten the mob in the room while her first opponent loomed over her in the hall. She heard as Torrent retrieved his sword from the mindless zombie, shouted for him to watch the door, and lunged at the immediate threat. She pounded on the sentry with a series of kicks and strikes, backing it down the hall, so the rest of her group could advance and engage the other monsters as they tried to come through the door. From the sounds, the other three were currently trying to dismantle the one Fox pulled off of their leader. Once Dawn had room to swing her sword, without clipping one of her own, she started chopping her foe into pieces, starting with the hands that reached out for her. It took a while to reduce the thing to quivering bits, taking care that no bit was whole enough to pose an independent threat. By the time she was done, her sword was covered in thick, black ichor. A fair amount of which was spattered on herself.

Torrent noticed she was returning to his side, and let one of the creatures through the door, directing it toward her. Dawn saw their leader was feeding other zombies one at a time to the trio of initiates on his right as well. Her next foe was another sentry, about as mindless as the first. She tore into it, sensing from the sudden ring of magic in the back of her mind that Torrent would need help soon. She found herself wishing she felt threatened enough to stumble across that deadly weapon in the back of her mind, but these were not demons. Animated death was just not that scary in comparison. Once her foe was disarmed, so to speak, she glanced down the hall and observed the system the trio had going. Torrent passed a zombie off to Fox, who broke various bones and dislocated various joints before passing it on to Rain and Akashi. Those two hacked at the knees, neck and elbows as they kicked the zombie back and forth between them, and tossed the parts into a small bonfire they had started with the first corpse and the torch Dawn had dropped to defend herself.

Fortunately, the oily smoke this tactic produced had found some vent above them to escape through or they would all have been suffocating as the third body fed the flames. They were working on their fifth victim as Dawn finished playing with her second. The last sentry came toward her without its head, as Torrent warned them that the last four were intelligent, possibly vampires. Fox darted past the knight to help Dawn finish the last sentry as quickly as possible, so they could join their leader against the greater threat.

Torrent, taking advantage of a good strike to blood his sword, tested his theory by flicking his weapon toward the fire. The spray of blood ignited explosively as it hit the flames. He ordered Dawn and Fox to cover the door as he stepped over to the fire and speared a burning chunk of thigh. He returned to the door and advanced on the vampires with this makeshift torch, forcing them to retreat into the room. While he held them at bay, he issued warnings and instructions to his charges. These undead were animated by the blood of true dragons, and possessed many of the same traits as dragon lords. They could wield magic and psychic arts. They also had natural regeneration and rejuvenation. If they fed, they could walk among humans undetected except in direct sunlight. That and fire were their only true weaknesses.

Akashi promptly strung her bow, asking the other initiates to wrap cloth around the heads of her arrows. Rain prepared a torch to light her arrows. With these preparations, Dawn and Torrent took up torches and entered the chamber to flush out the vampires, who had listened to the whole exchange grimly and run for cover inside the room. A flood of pleas and promises issued from the mouths of the vampires as the scout and the knight advanced, begging for mercy and offering the gift of immortality and eternal youth, if they were spared. If they had not looked so much like desiccated corpses, their pitiful cries might have touched a chord with Dawn’s humanity. Seeing them as they were, however, there was no difficulty reminding herself that these were cold blooded predators who exploited their human origins to trap their prey.

As they flushed the monsters out, Akashi sunk two or three well aimed arrows into each. The flaming missiles evoked terrible screams and convulsions from the vampires, as they exploded into flame. Out of pity, Dawn took her sword and made a quick round of the room, decapitating the four to cut short their agony. The room rapidly filled with smoke, forcing her and Torrent to retreat for air. The group remained long enough to see that all of the remains were reduced to ash, before completing their tour of the basement. The entrance to the catacombs, when they finally found it, appeared to be directly under the main hall. They found a concealed staircase that let out into the corridor behind the dais. They went to collect the gear they had stashed in the foyer and wait for the other group to come down and report on their findings. Dawn wandered to the entrance and looked out into the rain.

A moment later, Rain appeared at her shoulder, looking uncomfortable.

“What’s wrong, Rain?”

“My bladder is about to burst,” she muttered under her breath. Dawn glanced behind them, noticed Torrent looking in their direction, and led Rain out to stand under the awning.

“I am assuming you came to me for some kind of advice?” Dawn probed, studying her carefully. Rain blushed and nodded. “Not sure how the new plumbing works?”

“I tried to relieve myself earlier, when I lagged behind in that water closet we checked. I feel so stupid. I got so upset when I tried to, you know, whip it out and it wasn’t there. I just couldn’t relax, then my dad started pounding on the door telling me to stop playing with myself and keep up with the group!” she fumed and fidgeted.

“From the way you’re blushing, I guess that cut a little close to the truth,” Dawn commented acerbically. “Hey now, don’t get upset. How could you not be curious? Just tell me what happened.”

Rain growled and looked away. “I don’t know how it works for you girls, but for a guy there’s this whole point and shoot thing you have to go through if you don’t want to piss all over yourself. It’s kind of hard when there’s nothing to hold onto and you’re not even sure where it comes out. So I started poking around and got distracted,” she shrugged and returned her gaze to Dawn. “But if I don’t do something quick, I’m gonna burst!”

Dawn smiled, “I imagine if I tickled you right now the problem would take care of itself, but it wouldn’t be very kind. Let’s step around the corner and I’ll walk you through it.”





Book One · The Eve of Paradox

Chapter Seven

Apparently, the second group had returned from their search just as Dawn and Rain went around the corner. The evidence of this presented itself in the form of Lion, who came around the corner announcing that they were to rejoin the party and help move the gear upstairs. He stopped short at the sight of them squatting side by side, Dawn with her hand on Rain’s shoulder correcting her posture and balance so she did not urinate on her own breeches. Pelted by rocks thrown by the embarrassed young women, he raced back out of sight shouting apologies. He was waiting for them when they came around the front a few moments later. Rain stormed up, pounding on him as he retreated into the building. Dawn sighed and followed.

She could not help wondering what effect Rain’s transformation would have on the relationship between the two friends, as she watched them trade insults while they collected their gear. She had a sneaking suspicion that Rain had not just been altered on the outside, and Lion did not help matters by baiting the new made girl. She made a mental note to bring it up the next time she could speak freely with Dusk.

She quickly collected her gear and joined the train headed upstairs. Thorn was describing the spot he had selected, a set of apartments at the end of a short corridor. Two guards could be posted where the residential wing branched off of the main upstairs corridor. Two more could guard the single entrance to the sitting room where their base camp would be. There was a hearth and enough wood to last them through the night. Lion and Rain dropped their gear and took up posts at the mouth of the corridor while the others made camp. Four bedrooms let off of that common area, which offered some comfort and privacy for sleeping. All the windows were shuttered and secured, and Thorn’s group had attempted to air the beds, which seemed surprisingly intact for the passage of a decade. Dawn was just grateful that this was no where near where she had slept as a child. No one she knew had died in those beds.

They cooked dinner over the hearth, and drew lots while they ate to determine when each of them would take a turn at the watch. Dusk traded watches with Silk so that he could join Dawn on her watch, while Silk took the earlier watch with Akashi. Torrent had given Thorn the early watch, taking the dead of night with Dusk and Dawn for himself. Fox and River each took a room, and no one said anything when Dusk and Dawn took the third, leaving the last for their leader. Torrent just gave them a warning look before retiring to his room with a general advisement to the late watch to get plenty of sleep. It was going to be a long night. Dusk and Dawn closed the door behind them and slipped over to the bed.

“I don’t know if I can sleep in this place,” Dawn announced, eyeing the bed warily. “If I did, the nightmares would probably be horrendous. Should we just slip out now and search for our demon?”

“What if someone checks in on us after we’re gone? You know they will start a search for us. If anyone gets killed because we wandered off, we’ll fail the trials. That’s not that important to me, except that I depend on my status in the game to influence people in it. I once tried ignoring the context of the game to get things done and ended up being opposed at every turn. That’s why I put up with all of that marriage nonsense earlier, and the restrictions of the trials right now.”

“And what about me?” Dawn could not resist challenging.

“Oh, come on, Dawn. Didn’t we already have this conversation?”

“Don’t get excited,” she turned away and started removing her armor. “I don’t mean, are you ‘putting up’ with me. I mean, now that I know the truth, how am I supposed to treat my own life? Should the concerns of my House or my Goddess—since she’s really your slave—interfere with what must be done to protect the world itself?” She hung her leathers on a chair and returned to the bed in her shirt and breeches. “I mean, what happens if we don’t stop this demon in time? What happens if we do?”

“I can’t imagine what you should do, Dawn,” he sighed, loosening his armor and pulling it off a piece at a time. “This is your world. The only world you’ve got. I don’t think it would be a good idea for you to throw any of it away in a rush to confront disaster. For now, the demon is contained. We have enough information about it that if it moves into the open we can spot it and track it. As long as we can prevent it from getting direct access to Phoenix, we have the advantage. We have time. If we flush it out here, we come one step away from neutralizing it. The greatest danger right now is if it figures out that we are on to it. To prevent that, we have to carry on as normal.” Dusk finished stripping out of his armor. He sat on the edge of the bed. “I know that your life has been turned upside down. Once we deal with the demon, we both need to concentrate on how to deal with what we’ve learned about each other, and how the people in our respective worlds will react to these discoveries.”

Dawn considered that as he slipped between the sheets. Frowning to herself, she crawled into bed, frustrated by the fact that she had no choice but to follow his lead. Especially since doing so was, as she used to joke, the most reliable way to get lost. Of course, since she had confronted him with the truth, he had proven to be very focused and effective. “Was it always an act?” she asked impulsively.

“Was what always an act?”

“Your absent mindedness. Was that just a way to cover up for your differences?” she propped herself up on an elbow to study his face.

“Not entirely,” he shrugged. He sat up and inquired, “Do you remember what I told you about time in the game?”

She nodded.

“I took advantage of the capacity to accelerate the game to help deal with the demon corruption problem. The basis of the problem is the art of demonology. As we both know, the advances in art brought on by the Magus led to the steady eradication of the dark arts and those who practice them. I thought that by starting a new campaign, and forcing all the players to start a new generation of characters, I could both hasten the end of demonology and encourage the rise of demon hunters. To accomplish this, the game was accelerated by a factor of fifty-thousand, instead of the usual six. Twenty years passed in the four hours we were all logged in, during which our characters were designed, born and developed in context to the game. However well assisted, that much acceleration is hard for the mind to deal with. For the most part, it was a blur in which things slowed down for an instant here or there when we could make decisions or take actions to influence the development of our characters. The process created rich, detailed histories for us, but it’s more of an archive that exists to support our roles in the game. Most people never fully assimilate all of that information.”

“So, you don’t really remember our past together. That wasn’t really you?” she could not help betraying her shock and disappointment.

“Not entirely. The character a person plays is designed to be compatible with the player’s natural personality. You have to remember, this is immersive role-playing, the constructs players inhabit have psychological profiles of their own. I could sit back and let my AI run me through the game and have to deal only with command decisions. You could say, my character has a mind of his own, and I am more his soul, the motivating force. The more immersed I become in this role, the more ‘self possessed’ I become.”

“But this isn’t really you, is it?”

“This is a lot closer to who I really am than most of my previous characters. I am not trying to be someone else. I suppose I am more interested in being somewhere else. The differences are only those which make it possible for me to fit in here. The knowledge of customs and history, the languages, the skills and abilities I need to function in my chosen role, things like that.”

Her thoughts were in chaos as she struggled to grasp what this meant. The thing that screamed at the forefront of her brain was that the person she was in bed with, whom she had spent the most intimate moments of her life with, was a stranger. The boy she had loved, the past they had shared, was a fiction. “You can remember me, everything we did together, but none of it is quite real to you, is it? The truth is, you just met me. Like, you met a character in a play or a history you knew by heart, but I am a stranger to you.”

“Yes. That sums it up pretty well,” he confessed with a sigh.

Dawn climbed painfully from the bed and gathered her things while he gawked and stammered questions that never took full form. She remained silent until she was facing the door. Without turning she addressed him, “I am sorry for pushing you… for presuming too much. I understand now why you felt wrong about sleeping with me.”

He rose from the bed and came up behind her. She tried to slip out of the room, but he reached past her and forced the door closed. “Dawn. What’s done is done. I understand.”

“Do you? Do you understand that I am in love with a lie? A lie I can’t help but impose on you? I don’t even know you. Not really. I can’t know you as long as I see only the illusion.”

“Dawn,” he grabbed her by the shoulders and turned him to face him. She refused to meet his eyes, tucking her chin and looking away. “There isn’t anything else. There doesn’t need to be anything else. In this place, this is who I am. No one, in any reality, has more assurance than that. You can’t possibly know who someone else is, only what you can see and touch and remember.”

“You have a whole other life, a whole other world, and in that world you are an entirely different person. A person I don’t know!”

“The same can be said of dreams. We spend half our lives in a world no one else can know or enter,” he argued. “I may not be the person you thought I was, but I am the reality of that person. There is no other. Maybe you are just in love with your idea of me, but I think that’s true for everyone. You’ve just arrived at the same spot I was a few of nights ago. You didn’t let me run away, and I am not about to let you get away any easier.”

The members of the second watch had bedded down at the eighteenth hour and were roused six hours later. Thorn informed them, as they gathered in the main room, that there had been a steady stream of encounters while they slept. Demons and undead had been drawn individually and in small groups to their presence. There had been no massed assault, so the five on watch had been more than capable of dealing with the threat. Only once had there been an attempt by the creatures to scale the outer wall, and Akashi had picked them all off from above, firing her bow from the sitting room windows as they approached. To prepare the second group for what they would face, they were led to one of the other apartments off the defensive corridor. The remains of undead were chopped and stacked on the hearth, waiting to be added to the fire. Their attention was called to the remains of the demons.

It was commonly held that demons had, and could manifest, their own forms. They were not just hungry shadows limited to possessing the minds of the living. To manifest their true forms, however, demons required a sacrifice. That sacrifice could be made at their summoning, a soul loosed from its mortal vessel and seized by the demon. That same sacrifice could also occur if the host a demon possessed was denied sustenance. Instead of allowing the host to die, the demon consumed it from within. It shattered the mind and seized the soul to warp the vessel into something akin to its true form. While a demon’s true form might be hauntingly beautiful, this process created horrors.

“The only good side,” Silk commented softly, “is that they become anchored to the stolen soul. They’re almost impossible to kill, but they can’t disengage fast enough to possess you if you manage it.”

“This is what most people imagine when they think of demons,” Dusk mused, crouching next to a corpse. “Twisted parodies of humanity that enjoy pain as much as pleasure, immune to almost any injury.” He knocked on one blackened head, satisfied by the hollow sound. If it had an ounce of brains left, it would regenerate and continue its rampage. “I assume your group made sure of these before you left them in here?” he challenged, rising to his feet.

“I think we’ve all come in here several times each,” Akashi nodded. “Personally, I wasn’t satisfied with just burning out the brain. I tried to sear the spinal cord and primary branches.”

“I understand the feeling. I would be tempted to reduce these entirely to ash, myself,” Dawn asserted. She wondered how many of these embodied demons began as men and women wounded in the Dream Gate Massacre. As a child she had no idea of the lengths a demon would go to, to preserve a foothold in the flesh. That horror had been a later discovery, and a feature of more than a few nightmares. After a last look at the monstrous corpses, she grabbed Dusk and they went to the end of the corridor to relieve Lion and Rain. She guessed they had done a lot of talking in the past six hours, Rain slipped her hand into Lion’s as they returned down the corridor.

After they disappeared behind the sitting room door, she turned to Dusk and confessed, “I thought I would be the one person who could really understand what Rain is going through. But, I am not seeing anything resembling my own experience. My other half freaked out when he found himself in a female body, and he fought it until he was forced to face the truth.” She did not need to explain what had brought her dual existence to an end. Dusk had been there, helping her to deal with the crisis when she and her other half discovered they had once been the same person.

“Rain is not a boy in a girl’s body, Dawn. She is a girl created from the life and experiences of a boy,” Dusk explained. He went on to confirm her suspicions that the gallery in the main hall was a relic from before the creation of the Annex. Because the tools for players to modify their characters had been found to work on the natives who encountered them, they had been disabled and reestablished outside the main construct. He never anticipated that the artifacts would survive and become active again, but they had, and they functioned as they were designed to.

“Does that mean the effects are permanent? Physical and mental?”

“Yes. You have to remember that any physical reality is possible, so the governing factor is what is appropriate for the mind of the participant. Such a radical physical alteration should have only occurred to accommodate a mental predisposition. The gallery is only a corrective mechanism. It’s purpose is to improve player-character compatibility.”

“I am not sure I understand.”

“One purpose of the game was to allow people to explore life from different perspectives. Every human attribute offers a range of perspectives, but people tend to focus more on the advantages and disadvantages they confer. For example, a lot of guys I know tend to play female characters in games to take advantage of lower mass, quicker responses and greater endurance. This game took gender bending in gaming a step further. It made it possible for players to fully explore life as the opposite sex, but not everyone could handle it. Everything was experimental for new characters and these devices allowed them to fine tune their constructs until they were comfortable and compatible with the players’ personalities.

“I don’t know why Rain was drawn to that device, or how he triggered it,” he confessed. “What I do know is that it would not create the kind of conflict you experienced. Rain will be something of a tomboy, I suppose, but she won’t feel any particular need to be male.”

[Incomplete: Writing Interrupted.]

Author’s note: Initial pre-readers expressed the opinion that they found the polysex elements of the plots a detraction from the plot, and the progression of this theme to the character Rain unnecessary. Others referred to the Author’s exposure to Ranma ½ with predictable criticism. Although the premise of this story actually predates the publication of Ranma ½, the popularity of the series has cast more of a shadow on gender exploration than other works exploring the unity and diversity of sex in the psyche. In spite of numerous parallels that could be drawn between this story and other works, this project was developed to this point without deviating from the original character and plot sketches developed twenty years ago. Later influences did have some impact in lending insight into the material and if the work is resumed, those influences will not be dismissed. The decision to continue developing this story, in this or another form, will depend on reader feedback from this posting to Fanfiction.Net.





Eclipsed

I’ve been going through my writing notes and files and came across this. I submitted this for a creative writing class, fulfilling the assignment by pulling this short story out of the larger body of my epic. It may end up being worked back into the story, but for now it sort of stands alone as a short story. 

April 21, 2009 – Original Draft Completion Date
January 30, 2014 – Original Posting
Literature / Prose / Fiction / Philosophy & Perspectives / Short Stories
 




My thoughts sped by, felt but unfathomed, as I drifted numb to everything. Blissfully distracted from the endless distraction of thought, I allowed the noise to wash over me, and slipped into the depths of absolute silence. There was nothing to hold onto, and nothing bound to me. I knew nothing and understood; I found everything in myself. I was without boundaries, my naked soul undivided from the void and the incomprehensible things I encountered there. Sensations cascaded through my mind and ideas, frightening in their clarity, dissolved into fragments of understanding the instant they formed. The eye of the storm stirred with unclaimed dreams. Though I made no move to embrace them, I slipped blind into the one that swelled up and claimed me.

There was no sense of beginning as the illusion engulfed me, unfolding in a flicker of light, a shiver of cold, a flinch of pain—indistinguishable from a caress of pleasure—in an endless stream of disconnected sensations that slipped through me as fast as I fell away from them. Each impulse left a faint impression, a tiny ache of recognition out of which a sense of meaning was born. A hint of truth in the mystery, I discovered that they were all pieces of me, the ashes of my memories. Unfortunately, I had no idea how the glittering atoms of my mind fit together. All I knew was that I experienced a flicker of life each time a random connection was made.

I took a shuddering breath, and moaned, fighting against the impulse to wake.

The sensations coalesced into a dim world of unsettling objects that proved willfully unidentifiable. At a glance, the strange twilight would solidify into a place, but if I gazed too long at anything, it would begin to warp and waver, either changing into something else or dissolving before my eyes. Fragments of a dream that evaporated without a trace as I clung to unconsciousness, in denial of what I was already conscious of.

Once noted, I rejected that denial and forced myself to face the horror of what I had already sensed. I was hurt. I opened my eyes and confirmed the extent of the damage, a body burnt and maimed beyond recognition. I flinched away from traumatic memories of the cause. I saw nothing in what remained of me to indicate who or what I was. When I reached for it, the knowledge of who or what I had been was beyond recovery. I could not account for my survival, but finding my immediate surroundings equally devastated, I doubted I would encounter many other survivors. It looked like the end of the world. It was almost beyond description.

I had woken up in the remains of a concrete walled room, or what survived as the building it was part of had been blasted or torn from its foundations. The dark, bloody cavity of the sky loomed over a slaughtered world. The fields, foothills and distant mountains had been skinned, and shattered buildings had been chewed through to their splintered bones. It was painful to look at, and grim enough to compel me to see to my own wounds.

It took a while, but I found the supplies I needed. I cleaned and dressed my damaged flesh, promoting myself from zombie to mummy, and tried not to think about what it meant that I only felt the faintest echoes of pain. To say I was deep in shock could only be an understatement. I focused on practical thoughts and actions, because anything else would lead to screaming madness. Screw hope. Blind determination was the only thing that was keeping me going. Salvaging what little I could, I packed up and moved on.

I did not even contemplate staying where I woke up. The first thing I wanted to do was leave this devastation behind. I guessed that my best chance of survival would lie beyond the badlands. Given the state I woke up in, I was not surprised to find that my grip on reality was unreliable. As I pushed through the wreckage, I slipped in and out of consciousness, escorted by hallucinations. The most unsettling were the ones in which my body warped and wavered in its existence. At times, I would reach out, and even though I could feel my hands, I could not see them. Even when I could see them, they did not always remain mine. Without warning, it was as if parts of me became fused into the scenery and I would be forced to rip myself free of an arm or a leg to keep moving forward.

It gradually dawned on me that I could not distinguish between waking and dreaming. It was like a nightmare—the kind where I kept waking up inside a dream. I seemed to be doing the opposite, though, falling asleep and dreaming I was still stumbling forward in search of supplies, shelter and salvation. Day was an overcast twilight and night was unyieldingly dark. Because of my lack of coherence, time was impossible to mark. I always thought I was awake, and the only time I could tell I was dreaming was when things got impossibly surreal.

After a while, I began to wonder if this was what death was. It seemed much more like hell. Having no memory of life, or what I must have done to deserve this, only punctuated the feeling of damnation. I did not expect it would take long to descend into madness once I started to have thoughts like that. All I could do, however, was push forward, alive or dead, awake or dreaming.

I only knew peace when oblivion engulfed me. In its familiar silence, I understood, for lack of a better word, what it meant to be me. Rather, that understanding was me. In spite of whatever had happened to me, I still existed. It was enough to bring me back from the edge. In lieu of anything else, that glimmering truth sustained me, gave me focus. Even in the face of my nightmares.

In the grip of one, I found hope.

At the time I was stumbling through darkness, dreaming or awake, I could not know. I pushed on in mindless determination. I fought with despair and frustration, and above all I felt desperately alone. I tried not to think about it, but my sense of isolation had caused me to start seeing or sensing ghosts. Most were mere figments of imagination, just shadows or silhouettes of stone. Some of them were more of a presence, usually distant and remote. Others evaporated into nothing when I would approach. I had trained myself to ignore them by the time the first one spoke. I had sensed this one approaching, and dismissed it long before it came close. It stopped and seemed to regard me, when our paths finally crossed.

“Where are you going?” The words were soundless, intruding upon my thoughts.

Exhaustion muffled my shock. I slowly turned to confront the presence and had a hard time trying to define what I was sensing. It did not have a body, but it felt like a person was there. I cocked my head to ponder that and muttered the first thing that came into my head.

“You’re not like the other ghosts,” I rasped, barely making a sound.

“Nor are you, if you’ve seen them,” the ghost responded.

I stood for a moment without breathing. I swallowed, and asked fearfully, “Me? Are you trying to tell me I am dead?”

“I would not say that. Oh, the lives we once lived are over, but you and I, we’re not quite dead,” it clarified, its presence closing in around me. The contact was oddly comforting and unnerving. The way it projected words into my mind made me feel as if it could peer into my head. “It’s a good thing I found you. If you wander among the dead long enough, it will drive you mad.”

“What kind of ghost isn’t dead?” I demanded, thinking that this ghost was doing a good enough job of tipping me over the edge.

“Well, any soul that has not actually died,” the phantom declared.

I did not find that entirely reassuring. “I don’t understand. How does that apply to me?” I demanded.

“It means, you have been stripped from your body and your mind is trapped in a dream.”

“You have got to be kidding!” I cried out, half laughing. In spite of that, I was frightened. It was as good an explanation for what was happening as anything I’d want to believe.

“It’s better for you if you face it,” I was warned. “Tell me, what’s the last thing you remember?”

I hugged myself and turned away. “You mean, before I found myself here?”

“Yes. Or the last normal thing.”

“There’s nothing, unless any of this,” I indicated the world and the state I was in, “is ‘normal’.” My tone made it clear that it was not, as far as I was concerned. “I’m sorry, I just don’t remember,” I confessed, but somehow, it did not taste like the truth. There was a great deal I could remember, as long as it did not concern me. Given that kind of amnesia, and the fact that I was trapped in a dream, I was probably stuck in a coma. “I don’t really know what’s happened to me.”

“It looks like you got torn to pieces fighting to get free.” The observation was deeply upsetting. The words set my horror free. I tightened with apprehension, as I turned inward, unwilling, and was forced to see. The presence behind the words was the only thing supporting me, as I confronted the memory I had not been able to face. It was a memory of the very first time I was touched by another mind. I relived the moment it had seized hold of me and then thrust itself inside. It burned its way into every thought and feeling I possessed and then turned me inside out. Whatever else had happened, I now knew that my mind had been raped.

I hovered on the brink of remembering more, until I understood that I could not bear to. Not if I wanted to stay sane. I struggled to make sense of it, and on some deep level I suppose I did. It was not so much that I could not remember anything, but that my most important memories no longer belonged to me. They had been tainted by violation. The simple act of touching them filled me with a violent urge to tear myself free.

“What was I fighting?” I wondered, careful not to speak the thought aloud.

“You were fighting a demon,” the stranger informed me soberly and with sympathy, confirming that it was aware of my thoughts.

I did not want to believe any of it, but denial would lead me nowhere. My actions, and especially my reaction—tearing myself free of what my mind refused to remember—argued that I had endured something real, as well as unspeakable. It fit with my experience, and once I had accepted it, the implications were clear. I realized the horror in silence, “I will never wake up, again. Or, even if I could,  I would not be me anymore. It’s either dream or be undone.”

“No. And, yes. I’m sorry,” the stranger confirmed, and comforted, stepping unexpectedly into focus, her body condensing from the mists of predawn twilight, and adding with an encouraging smile, “but you don’t have to dream alone.” As she moved, the air moved ahead of her carrying the strong scent of rain, wet rock and pine needles. These scents filled me and the landscape changed dramatically. The twilight turned into a stormy sky over a grassy meadow in the middle of a damp forest. The trees danced and twisted in the grip of a vengeful, howling wind. I stumbled back away from the woman and noticed that she stood poised on the edge of a cliff facing me. I hovered formless and insubstantial in the air above her, on the wrong side of the precipice.

“What is this?” I babbled in shock, gripped by vertigo, but discovering I had no body, I was unable to fall.

“This is the alternative to oblivion and death,” she explained, spreading her arms in a sweeping gesture that included a vast panorama of world and sky. When she turned back, she was smiling, and said, “This is what I am dreaming, and I am not the only one.”

I had a hard time tearing my attention away from the vibrant scene and focusing on what she was saying. “Not the only one?” I repeated, encouraging her to explain.

Instead of the response I expected, she asked me, “Do you know why demons try to steal souls?” When it took me too long to process the question, she expanded on it, “More importantly, did you ever wonder what happens to those poor souls? Well, I found out when a demon devoured mine. It took everything from me; my thoughts, my memories, my entire mind was devoured and digested as it swallowed my soul and took over my body. Only an echo of me survived, trapped in the darkest depths of the demon’s mind.”

I let her words play through my mind for a while, and she held silent while I thought. Clearly, I was supposed to understand that she was a victim, like me, but I was still struggling to fit demonic possession in as part of reality. It was not just that I wanted to deny it, but based on what I could remember, it did not seem to be something I had ever deemed possible. “I honestly can’t say I ever thought about it,” I confessed, focusing on the initial question. “Why do demons try to steal souls?”

“If you’ve had any religious studies, you may have learned that demons do not have souls of their own. The same is true of angels. The thing you might not know, however, is that they depend on souls to exist. They are dependent on the soul of their creator, or the soul of a host. A demon is really just an angel that has taken possession of the soul of its host,” she explained.

“You mean fallen angels,” I prompted, discovering that much in my memory of theological trivia. What she was telling me was not that far from what I had picked up in the course of my life. From what I could remember, even religious people tended not to take the idea of demons too literally. “That does not seem to fully answer your questions,” I noticed aloud. “If one soul will sustain it, why would a demon need more?”

She smiled. “That is an excellent question! It turns out that demons are after more than simple independence. Most of them crave autonomy. They want to have souls of their own.”

“I’m not sure I see the distinction,” I protested.

“They don’t always see it themselves. You see, it’s sort of an instinct. I suppose you could say, the demon wants a soul that fits. The problem is, the soul is the source of emotion, and souls that are dominated are full of anger and hatred and resentment at their enslavement and those emotions plague the demon and drive it,” she revealed.

I paused to weigh what she had told me, surprised by how much sense it made. It offered an explanation for the characteristics demons were supposed to have. It explained how, by simply falling, angels became so twisted inside. As it occurred to me, suddenly, the demon that had possessed me would act on my violent rejection in the world I was from. “Is there any way to stop it, or undo it? Or at least keep what I feel about it from driving it to cause harm?”

She gave me an odd look. “It’s been a long time since anyone even bothered to ask,” she said after a moment, with something like respect. “And it usually takes people much longer to figure that side of it out.”

I did not know what to say, so I said nothing.

“As it happens, that’s what I am doing. By giving souls an escape, I help distract them,” she confided. “It’s not really a way to stop or undo what has happened. You lost a lot to the demon, but the violence seems pretty much done with. It should be pretty calm, assuming you heal from the damage it’s done to you. Assume that it wanted to be you, and that it will be content with your life.”

That was disturbing and reassuring at the same time. Besides, it was not like I was in a position to do anything else about it. I tried to focus on the positive. I would not miss a life I had forgotten. Also, having my soul stripped out of my body by a demon and trapped with other souls in its mind, went a long way toward proving things my old reality could not sustain. Spirits and souls really existed, so dying was much less frightening. Finally, I had been offered salvation, a refuge from certain insanity. I sighed and asked her, “So, how does one ‘share’ a dream?”

-------------------------------
©2014-2025 David Bryan Roberson