UNPROMISED
A consequence of her own actions, Av is confronted by the realization of a divine destiny.  Stranded in a world derived of innumerable stolen realities, and doomed to chaotic dissolution--caught between her desire to salvage this ersatz world, the unyeilding call of her self ordained destiny, and her own sensual and amoral nature--her only hope is to embrace the very soul of Mystery.  UNPROMISED is one of the most difficult and demanding stories I could hope to write.  It is a book that shears across genres, it assaults our faith and reason, and is involved to the point of being impenetrable.  In it, you will see the beginning of an epic story which blends magic and science fiction with adventure, horror and erotica.  The premise of this series is simple, and at once complex.  Anything is possible.  But it all has consequences.  Nexus is a shining example of the premise on which I am now writing.  Reality is a thing that exists solely in the mind.  The world we are aware of is an image, created and interpreted in our minds from the information gathered through our perceptions.  This is one of the reasons why what we believe seems so important to us, for what can happen to us seems largely dependant on what we can believe can happen to us.  This is an unfavorable book for presenting a character such as Avonlea in, and somehow, it is an appropriate one never the less.  Clearly the book is centered around the strange exotic, Avonlea, as she is the UNPROMISED.  I have put a bit more effort into this book than I had originally thought neccessary.  I had thought at first that this would be a light, amusing, fantasy adventure with which to break into publication.  If, however, I am to do the actual story that inspired this work any justice, I can not help but make this a very serious endevor.  Recognizing how much this work demands, I have obliged to withdraw from it a bit, even to the point of considering another work for a first publication.  Even now, after having reached that decision, though, I still feel a powerful lure to maintain my work on this manuscript.  
	Seen in a new light, the entire purpose for this story is clear.  This gist of this story is the Devourer's bid for Avonlea.  His design, to undo this ersatz world.  The entire second stage of the original manuscript is actually a solid base for the appropriate sequel to the story I see now.  In the space within the first eighteen chapters, there is room to weave in a darker thread originally intended to be there but somehow neglected in my approach to the original manuscript.  Long before Enzo was forced to acknowledge her, Sivai knew what was going on, and was moving to snatch her up.  His unholy, disruptive servitors have seeped into the dark corners of Nexus.  Sivai has watched her and stalked her.  He has even conceived of a way to make Kzeisza or Rasha give Avonlea to him.  Kzeisza he confronts as a god to an immortal.  Rasha he nudges with possabilities.  The surest way for Sivai to acheive his desire is to make Avonlea and Rasha gods.  They hold the keys to his work between them.  When Vallisthlathlynr cuts loose, he tears Kzeisza apart until Av interferes and he defers to her out of respect for what his leige the Devourer wants for her.  Even though she rejects him, he continues to stand behind her.  To Sivai, this is a small bit of work.  Avonlea is the key to this world's salvation or its destruction, which is what Kzeisza learns as things near the end.  

The Devourer's interest in Avonlea is confronted directly when he comes to bid for her appointment.  There are many questions for Av to consider in this confrontation.  Sivai, asking to be called Eden, guides her to the Deck of Fate.  "It shows what you truly desire and makes it so.  There we will find our answers."  She bids him draw a card to tell her what she needs to know about him and his intentions, and she draws one for herself, at his request to reveal her answer to his bid.  He draws the night; representative of turning away from the light, sensual and dark, a devouring of the world that is known.  She draws the unnamed angel.  A card which leaves her unchanged and speaks of her desire to remain untouched by him.  Eden Sivai looks at this and laughs ruefully, kissing her on her forehead and then departs.  His parting words are thus, "You did not choose me, but in your heart of hearts you are mine--I would have made you a goddess..."  To which she replies, "I do not want to be a goddess."  His final rebuke, "Yes you do.  You just don't want to owe anyone for it.  We are much alike..."

FORMAT/DETAILS
Written in my format in twenty-seven chapters of twenty-one pages per.  The book will be around two hundred and eighty-nine thousand words long.  The genre will be high fiction; what I call a serious work that considers the consequences of any possability being manifest.  The themes will be rather varied; including but not limited to erotica, horror, occult, and philosophic on the nature of sanity, reality and responsibility.  My manuscript should be around five hundred and sixty-seven pages long.  At the very best, it would take me three months to finish the first complete draft.  That is working full time, eight hours a day without a day off.  If I were willing to spend sixteen hours a day working, I could manage both the manuscript and the obligatory job, but I have many crucial commitments that I can not afford to neglect.  So I will say that this time, I can not write at my highest capacity.  Writing at half that capacity, it would take me almost six months to finish my first draft.  I would like to strive for something closer to the three month ideal.  I imagine that the biggest difference will be in my planning stages.  If I do my groundwork well, the writing should be relatively undemanding.  

I began working on the notes for the series of UNFOLDING, the story of Avonlea and Nexus, in the fall of 1992.  Working from these notes, and style tests, I began my outline/ chapter breakdowns for UNPROMISED, book one in the as yet open ended series, in May of 1993.  This led to the working draft beginning in August of '93.  This venture was conducted in my spare time around both work and travel through out the fall.  What I had by the middle of December was the first third of the book, chapters one through nine.  When I reappraised the work and how it would evolve into a series, I was compelled to be more strict with the presentation of the book.  After changing my style paradigm, and extracting the elements best treated seperately later in the series, I had eighteen chapters and fully ten books in the series, two of which are much more in depth and to the side of the Nexus story line.  Hopefully, I can get through the rest of the work in as reasonable an amount of time.  I am constantly being forced to go back through the existing work to bring the volume of text down into publishable realms.  It is sort of interesting that I have now created competition with myself for presenting the character of Avonlea to the world.  I am going to be working on the spotlight piece AVONLEA, at the same time that I am going to be completing work on UNPROMISED.  Which ever work has the best merits will be the first work to go into publication.  It will be interesting to see how both works are taken in light of each other.  They are going to be in two different worlds of readership, and they will possibly force those worlds to meet, should a real interest in the character evolve.

COVER ILLUSTRATION - OIL ON CANVAS
There are some concerns for this book that I need to consider as I devise the image that will in many cases sell the book.  One, I want to present an image of Avonlea.  Two, I need to give an indication of where this is happening; an image of Vancouver spliced into Nexus.  Three, I need to give an indication of the realistic, futuristic, divine, horrifying and magical themes of the book; in part possible through the use of her levitational gift, placing her hovering over a horizon where Vancouver can be seen framed by its new borders.  A high contrast twilight lighting, can be useful.  Kind of a Maxfield Parish taste in scene.  In the image might be seen an indication of the three Fleet ships, maybe even Kzeisza.  The indication of horror would best involve her confrontation of some mythos entity or other unspeakable horror, rather than Kzeisza.  Her hovering ought to suggest the supernatural, while the city itself would suggest a future/modern touch.  The image would be centered high, allowing for bottom title and author copy.  I would like to have a print of this to submit with the manuscript.

PRESOUNDING
The most important questions about this work have alrady been well considered.  If not written down.  It would be quite a project to extract the volume of information that is going into this work, but it would not be impossible.  The presounding for this volume would be more a collection of statements that questions, as is normal.  As this work was key in helping me devise my writing technique, it is unique in being somewhat outside of my technique.  

In the course of this book, the story of UNFOLDING is well founded.  The course of the UNFOLDING is too great to follow within the limits of one book, so it is more than acceptible that in this book, the founding between Vancouver, the fleet and the first invite, the Court Undying is about all that can be resolved.  In fact, the commitment stage is about all that actually occurs.  The Dead are only in the investigation stage by the end of this volume.  As there are a lot of complications to beset the Pact, it is only natural.  The complications are largely attributed to the fragmented nature of Vancouver powers.  To wit, these are the powers that are involved either though agreement or opposition:  SRI, the Paf, the Dead, AO, the NLS, the unnamed and uncounted splinter groups of marauders, the divine entities of Mystery, Fate, the Devourer, the Unspeakable, the muses of Xanadau, and various individuals of power.  SRI and the other Pact members are becoming dedicated to the solidification of their cultures, technologies, arts and economies.  The marauders and opposing factions are interested in the pursuit of their own gains, which would be hindered by the formation of the Pact.  Many gods are interested in claiming the Nexus, while Eden, the Devourer is interested in undoing the Nexus.  Mystery is somewhat neutral and her interests are unclear beyond the response to Avonlea's pettition.  The dragons are faced with this situation as a complication in a logistical equation, and involve themselves out of interest in seeing the question resolve clearly enough to pursue the answer.  For most, the interest is in finding a way to perservere long enough to find a way to go foreward or back.  The riddle of Nexus itself will not begin to resolve itself for some time yet.  
	In so far as Avonlea is concerned, as a subject, the course of her present involvement presents her with the opportunity to relate partially how she came to be on Nexus and how she came to be what she is when we first confront her.  For her to fall to Eden's designs, she would fall back into the loop of her own bootstrap.  The means by which she would fulfill Eden's desire would create a goddess out of her, and create her own orgin, her own world.  It is in her best interest for her to escape the loop of creating herself in this manner if she can manage to find a way to fulfill the promise for which she exists.  This conundrum is essentially the apex of this book.  Escaping this, however, requires that she override her instinctive self at the crucial moment.  Which she does.  

What is the point of this book?  I have stated many times that the best definition of a thing is the embodiment of the thing itself.  Avonlea is an extrordinary being.  So extraoridinary that she is almost impossible to justify in terms of our existence.  Which is not right.  Avonlela is the expression of an ideal.  That is all the justification needed.  Since she truly matters, the matter to consider becomes:  What am I trying to express with her?  Why?  The paradigm of this series is that anything is possible and it all has consequences.  Being oneself, and pursuing the immensity of the power and divinity of that self, is not easy.  It requires an impeccibility, an excellence of spirit that far outshines the self depricating and hypocritical views we entertain in our own lives.  I am using Avonlea to show us how much we can aspire to and endure.  I am using Avonlea to explore the darker and more seductive sides of ourselves.  I am revealing her to us in all her intimacy; one, because it is the best way to show what her design is really about, and two, because she has the intimacy to embrace us in our invasion of her.  When I have reached the second UNPROMISED, it should become clear that it was you and I that raped her.  Yes, we used her.  But in the end, she was not stained by us.  So, what I am ultimately doing is showing us that we need not submit to the pains and degradation of exploitation.  Our existence is so intimate, and we are so used, by ourselves, our world and each other; we have to be strong and divine enough to stand pure and proud.  In this first book, we see Avonlea accepting and inviting death itself into her arms.  Next, she will accept mystery and the unknown.  Then responsability, sanity and perspective, and even destruction will follow.  All along the way, she learns.  She learns how to express herself and explore herself.  Ultimately she must learn to be promised only to herself.
	Whatever we do, there are consequences.  The same holds true for Avonlea.  For all the characters in this book.  Which is why I am writing it all to begin with.  I have had to live with this incredible story.  That is the consequence of accepting Avonlea as a part of myself.  I had to write it down to see it clearly.  I have to read it to reenter it as a part of Avonlea.  I could just forget it.  I could just ignore it.  So could my readers.  But, here it is.  The deed is done.  Avonlea has been violated.  She has been tortured for me.  For you.  I owe it to her to publish this.  The consequences will only become greater, but she is equal to them.  We can think of her as just an imagined character.  We can devalue her life to the point where we have no need to learn anything from her.  Turn her life into entertainment.  That is a choice that each of us has to make, and we all face the consequences accordingly.  I have to state that as I wrote I was forced to treat all of the characters with the same respect and integrity I did her.  I learned that every individual is different.  Many of whom live in a self absorbed state which contributes to the folly that shapes a world such as Avonlea had to live in.  Avonlea was truly unique in her perspective.  If everyone had been as clear as she, then the situation would have resolved itself without her.  Indeed, she may never have had the opportunity to fulfill her purpose for herself in existence.  So, she used everyone else as surely as she was used by them to become what she wanted.  Consequences.  To learn this, is it not clear that the world we live in is such that it will afford us with the proper circumstances and tests within which to find ourselves?  To fulfill our own destinies?  It is all nothing but tools.  Tools that can be used to become self destructive, pathetic, lost, dead, or perhaps even a god.

Obviously, one of the important factors to consider concerns the options present for us to embrace.  Avonlea had the advantage of beginning with gifts and powers that are extrememly improbable in a world such as ours.  However, those gifts were taken as granted; much the way we take for granted our dreams and our imaginations.  Her world did not have such a full and encompassing mental and conceptual horizon.  She had to be exposed to many things outside of her native experience to become what we see at the start of the book.  Her adaptability, though necessary, was the same gift we all have.  The only exception made in her life was her openness to the unknown.  She allowed her subconscious the liberty to bring to her the opportunities to confront and enter those mysteries.  Faith enough to be subject to the magic and divine powers that carried her along.  She was born to miricles.  This is not a story about accepting miricles.  This is a story about accepting oneself.  I will, at another time, embark on a work concerned with confronting and accepting miricles from an unmiraculous state of being.

UNFOLDING : THINGS TO COME

UNREQUITED 	
	Even in light of the horrifying revelations she has so recently endured, she is still compelled by her responsabilities.  In a time old tradition, she has chosen to bury her troubles in her work.  In this case however, her work does not need the extra trouble.  What should be a routine endevor to invite a culture fragment into the new alliance somehow seems to be a nightmare of intrigue and mystery.  Somewhere in all of this diplomacy is a death trap, and the only out for her is to out think whomever is weaving this labrynth.  What she can not expect, however, is that the divine powers are not through with her yet.  In fact, they have hardly begun to make their full claim on her.  Only when all she has loved has been torn from her by her own hand does she learn what waits to embrace her.
UNBOUND
	Committed to an existence immersed in the Inconceivable Avonlea must learn that she has not even begun to understand the demands of her own destiny.  Especially as she learns that destiny itself is not inevitable.  Can she live up to the subconscious designs she has placed over her self?  Intimate encounters with virtually identical--yet disturbingly different--entities only accentuate her own uniqueness.
AVONLEA
	Avonlea is not what anyone would call normal.  In fact, so many people find her mysterious, enigmatic, or just plain odd, that chances are few people could actually know what to call her.  To understand her, one really has to get to know her.  Unfortunately, she is not very easy to get to know.  She seems to take special pains to reveal as little as possible about herself to anyone.  Why?  That is part of the mystery.  When confronted with the question, 'is not plain humanity good enough for you?' she can only reply that she never really knew what that was.  She is a very enticing and alluring creature, so naturally it is this which creates the current of this story.  An adversary and admirer is entranced in her and becomes obsessed with penetrating the mystery surrounding her.  She is at a hard time in her life.  She must decide if she will continue to follow her destiny, or begin to pursue her own autonomy.  A time for her to really decide what she wants.  To understand this question, she has come to Earth.  A world revered to be the most demanding and crucifying to exist in.  Even her experiences can not save her from the inertia of sanity that can make her question the validity of her own reality.  This is a world that will kill you to help you; lock you away if you don't fit in.  A night in a padded cell is a blow of many proportions; a twisting dagger of synchronicity in her gut.  Her brother, Kev, is found, having passed through death's door.  He brings with him, her old conflict of desire.  His presence is the shattering blow to her mystique.  Eventually the questions come, 'can the truth destroy you?'  'Do you really want to know?'  Dare she deliver a killing blow to another's reality?
UNDONE
	Having realized herself, she has suddenly come upon her inevitable trial by fire.  Her will and identity will be tested--pushed beyond all mortal limits.  Her destruction will be excruciating and slow as she stubbornly fights and resists the caresses of the Devourer--the touch of destruction.  Her desperation will cause her to make herself an abonination to her old self before she finally must realize the truth.
UNLEASHED
	Nature abhors a void.  The PAF has similar sentiments.  The death of Avonlea--following the revolutionary work and development inspired by her complex biological nature--creates a vacancy which must be filled.  The consequences of growing clones and genetically re-engineered varients from the matrix taken from Avonlea lead to a startling transformation of her avatarhood.  As the experimentation proceeds, a strange phenominon is revealed.  The divine spirit and soul of the Avatar of Mystery and the Unknown embraces each of her images--even though she has herself transcended the limits of form.
UNRESOLVED
	Rare.  Unusual.  Avonlea, unleashed from the constraints of form, has become equal to hernew diversity of form.  Now, manifest in the body of an Imprint Exotic metamorph, she embraces her smouldering fascination with Kzeisza.  She--a phoenix risen from her own ashes--would trade her physical immortality to embrace the essence of the dragon.  He would for the first time come to know true love--a thing most unprecidented.
UNFATHOMED
	Into the abyss.  Or Abyss.  Avonlea and Morgan the Younger have moved beyond the sphere of closed realms and embarked on a journey across the thresholds of time, space and alternity.  These two fragile, mortal godlings must dance lightly along the impossible margin, as many things surround them which at times have sought actively to destroy each of them.  Morgan, the product of an unholy fusion of science and magic, is more demon than divine.  Av having crossed so far from her native birth, seeks to find a way to reclaim her soul for herself or prove that she was Mystery all along.

SLIP
	Kidnapping the clone.  Because of her divine nature, her clones are a potential danger.  Nineteen years have passed since her death.  Avonlea seeks out one of her first clones, the one that grew from infancy in real time (the literal first successful clone.)  In light of my decision to work on AVONLEA, a more direct examination of Av than is possible in the light of Nexus, this is the feature of another spotlight.  The focus for this note, though is the exploration of the self taken to an external angle.  It is a work on its own.  The main point being that Av transcended her personal death to return to where she was dead and confront the living progeny of her self.  This is the first time she physically returns to Nexus after her death.  In UNFATHOMED she and Abyss move entirely outside of Nexus, and in UNRESOLVED her phoenix slip is the actual chracter involved.

UNPROMISED : THE RAPE OF AVONLEA
	A man of power finds her attractive--in her strength and her divinity, though he is a deamonic sort.  His way is to stalk her; to catch her unawares, psychically deactivate her conscious control of herself, turning her into an unwilling participant, a living toy for him to sexually exploit.  She is torn between the pleasure he causes her in using her in this manner and the fact that he has so utterly violated her.  She finds herself wishing he had killed her and raped her corpse rather than leaving her alive with the knowledge that she has been turned onto an object for pleasure against her will.  This is the sounding of a new chord in her existence, though.  It is time for her to go beyond Mystery.  To become unpromised once more, save to herself.  This desire was awoken in AVONLEA, the first spotlight on her.  To learn at this time how vulnerable she still is, she must embrace the lesson for which she died.  To live by her own will.  It will bring her to confront An, and it will bring her to confront me.  What do you want?

??



 

 

