

An answer to the question... 

How to reconcile the presence of her unity and duality with the epitome of her genesis?

The twins are reincarnations of her, who simply happened to have been initiated during the same period of conception. She was originally conceived in a "god-goddess" union, herself playing the role of mother and goddess, being at that time buried in the shadow of her unconscious mind, in the world she had dreamed. She was born just slightly ahead of her sister and brother selves, in whom she would face a divided resurrection as a mated singular duality (sinduo?) but first she would have to resolve the matter of her conception and birth. At the age of nine, she would loop herself, emerging from the dream sequence of her genesis (as real as anything else, save for her unique perspective) at the age of twenty-seven. In essence, the process is the transition from an eternity spent dreaming the heart of that universe's reality, to realizing the dream entirely. To her, the experience is quite a bit like finding herself overwhelmed by her mother's memories in the wake of her death. Almost, but not quite, for she actually lives through the experiences, engaging the strange world she finds herself in from her own personal perspective, relying on her own experiences and memories. She will understand this in the final days of her life, before the assassins chase her into her exile on Earth, that she was her own mother, and when her death finally comes, as she had seen it come to her mother when she was the child, and she awakens in the nine year old body of her daughter, this understanding is not only fully confirmed, but to that is added the understanding of how she had become lost in a strange and alien world, she had retreated into her own dreams. Okay, technically, it was not an alien world to her. It was the world of her birth, where people spoke her native tongue, but she had been gone for two years, and for a child, it was enough time for her to adapt to Earth, and think of it as a part of herself. Her facility with terrestrial languages and cultural influences marked her as something of an enigma, at the point where she entered history. 

In any case... the big paradoxical loop takes place in the nexus of her ninth year... marking it with an exclusive presence distinct from the issues compounding the evolution of the plot surrounding her sixteenth through eighteenth years.
